بِسْمِ اللَّهِ وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى رَسُولِ اللهِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ اَجْمَعِينَ ثُمَّ اَمَّا بَعْدُ Once again
اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم وَرَحْمَةُ اللهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ Oh, boy, we have Allah stuff to cover. This section is called Oaths, Qasam (قسم). When Allah swears by something in the Qur'an. And this is a very, very interesting study in the entire Qur'an. There are lots of places where Allah takes an oath. So I am going to give you some notes on the oath in the Qur'an and oaths in general. That will help you understand this subject in the Qur'an. It really adds a different dimension of beauty to Allah's Book. So the first thing I want to give you a few observations a few pointers on is oaths in general. Oaths in general. When does someone say I swear? What do you think? Huh?

When you're angry. I swear if you say that one more time. So you can swear when you are angry. Generally this is not just in Arabic. You can do that in English. You can do it in Spanish. You can do it in Punjabi. You can do in Urdu. You can probably do it in Bahasa. I don't know. I just found out you guys don't have past tense and present tense. I'm still shocked about that one. You have no tense. So my entire conversation on Friday night I don't know what you thought about that, because

So when you when you tell someone I'll take care of it. It's the same as I took care of it. Which means you never know what's going on? How do you do this? Now I just out of curiosity, I have to learn it any way you can take an oath when you're angry. I swear, man, you better stop Wallahi You-- when you're not being believed. You come three hours late to work. Your boss looks at you. I swear it was traffick. I swear. I swear to God it was traffic. In other words, you swear when you're not being believed. When somebody thinks you're lying, then you swear. You also swear when you're in court.

Yes? I swear to tell the whole truth. Nothing but the truth. Most of the truth. So help me God. Right? So you swear when you're in court. Okay.

Uh, three is good enough. Then oaths in old Arabic. Oaths in old Arabic include the first three, but there's one more. Okay? And oaths in old Arabic their purpose is to get your attention.

How do you get attention of someone in English? Hey!

And in Urdu you say 'Oye!' Different languages have different ways of doing it. In Arabic you say Uh huh. You get somebody's attention. How do you guys do it? How do you get somebody's attention? huh? Just one person,man, it's too many. It's like Abu Bakr, it's like Abu Bkar right now. However you do it, Hey, yo, whatever it is you do, the Arabs would do it by swearing by something. They would say I swear by the sun. What what happened? That's their way of getting someone's attention. Okay, they will take an oath to get somebody's attention. We don't do this in normal languages Now oaths in the Qur'an.

In addition to all four of these, which are true of the Qur'an, sometimes Allah swears when He's angry. Sometimes Allah swears to illustrate that He's not being believed people aren't taking what He's saying seriously enough. The swears about court I'll explain in a second how that works in the Qur'an, but what I want to tell you is they are used as evidence. When the object of the oath is used as evidence. Now that sounds complicated, but, inshallah, it will become simpler in the next couple of minutes. object of the oath and subject of the oath. If you understand these two things, the subject will become easy in the Qur'an. There are two parts of an oath in the Qur'an. There's the object of the oath and there is the subject of the oath. So when I say
وَالْعَصْرِ. إِنَّ الْإِنْسَانَ لَفِي خُسْرٍ Allah says I swear by what? I swear by time, human beings are in trouble. Then what that means is the object of the oath is time, the object of the oath is time, and the subject of the oath is: human beings are in loss. The human being is in loss, you understand? So the object is the thing that He's swearing by. So if you say I swear by the sun, I swear by the moon I swear by the stars. I swear by Allah I swear by this I swear by that; whatever you swear by is the object. Then after you say your object, whatever you say next is your subject. And it's correct-- that it correctly called the subject of the oath because that's actually what you wanted to talk about. The object of the oath was not your discussion. That wasn't your subject. It wasn't your purpose, your topic. Your actual topic was what comes next. Like, for instance, when somebody's talking to you, I swear to God and they stop You didn't say anything. Once you used Allah as the object of your oath you have to say, I swear to God I love ice cream. You have to say something. To make it-- make a subject out of it, you understand? So there are two parts of it always; object and subject. Now another thing to note here for other than the Qur'an in Arab culture from old times from thousands of years ago, until now, in Arab culture swearing by Allah is not a big deal. Swearing by Allah is not a big deal. In Indian culture, in Pakistani culture, in Bangladeshi culture I don't even know about Malay culture, but in these Southeast Asian cultures, swearing by Allah is really bad. Somebody says, I swear by Allah Do Istighfar, go slaughter a goat. You swore by Allah. But you're Syrian friend and your Jordanian friend and your Algerian friend and your Egyptian friend what do they say all the time? Wallahi. Wallahi man it is hot today Wallahi. Wallahi it's hot. Wallahi I love I love football. Wallahi England lost so bad, you know? Wallahi anything. No big deal. And somebody else was like super high on their Taqwa like Wallahi, you said Wallahi? Astaghfirullah. He said Wallahi. No, it's no big deal Allah says in the Qur'an لَّا يُؤَاخِذُكُمُ ٱللَّهُ بِٱللَّغْوِ فِىٓ أَيْمَٰنِكُمْ No problem Allah will not hold you to account when you take an oath by His name when you didn't really mean it, it's fine. It's just part of your culture. It's fine. No big deal. If you really meant it, then you'll be held to account. You know when some people say you swore by Allah now you have to do it. Like Wallahi I'm gonna kill you man. Like friends are messing with each other one guy's elbowing the other Wallahi, Hey, man, stop it. I'm gonna kill you. Wallahi Now he took an oath, so he shows up with a dagger the next day. I'm sorry, bro. I swear to God, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Uh huh. You don't have to do that. Relax. Okay. Now let's come back to the oaths in the Qur'an. Here's the really cool thing. The object of the oath in the Qur'an serves as evidence for the subject of the oath. I'll say that again. The object of the oath becomes evidence for the subject of the oath. Another way of saying that is the object of the oath prepares you for the subject of the oath. So actually, Allah uses a particular object for His oath to get you ready for what He's going to say. And He might even use it as evidence for what He's going to say. So the study of the relationship between the object and the subject becomes a very interesting study in the Qur'an. It's a very interesting relationship between the object and the subject. Easy example: وَالْعَصْرِ what does He say? إِنَّ الْإِنْسَانَ لَفِي خُسْرٍ
I swear by time each and every human being is in loss. So idea--what's the object again? Time. The fact that time is running out is the ultimate evidence that human beings are in loss. Right? So it's it's serving as the subject or serving as proof of the subject. So with that in mind, let's look at a couple of subjects and objects of the oath. Allah says فَلَآ أُقْسِمُ بِٱلشَّفَقِ
No, no, no. I swear by the orange sky. وَاللَّيْلِ وَمَا وَسَقَ
And the night as it gets super dark. وَالْقَمَرِ إِذَا اتَّسَقَ And I swear by the moon as it's fully-- slowly and slowly becomes full. Meaning day by day by day it becomes full. There are three oaths here. The first oath was I swear by the orange, the sky that turns orange. The second oath was I swear, by the night as it gets really dark. It gets darker and darker and becomes fully dark. Then I swear by the moon that goes from what the lightest phase where you're fighting over Eid to full moon. It goes over those phases. Then He says,
لَتَرْكَبُنَّ طَبَقًا عَن طَبَقٍ You people are going to to ride one stage after the next after the next after the next after the next. What is the relationship between these things? When the sky is orange, when the sky is turning orange, that means that it's close to sunfall, Maghrib is around the corner. Yes? Maghrib is inevitable. I mean the sky's orange, but you know what's coming, what's coming next? Nightfall. And the nightfall is in the next Ayah. The night comes and the night is kind of blue, but it gets dark blue and it gets darker blue and it gets darker blue until it becomes what? Black.
وَاللَّيْلِ وَمَا وَسَقَ So the color started from orange, and the gradient of color went from orange eventually all the way to black. But it didn't go from orange to black. It went from orange to red to purple to blue to dark blue. You see what I'm saying? There was a progression. When it's super black, the the sky is completely black, what does Allah start talking about? The moon. And the moon one night and the black sky; the moon is really thin. Then it gets a little fatter, then it gets a little fatter then it gets a little fatter, and it starts looking like a banana. Then it looks a little fatter, then it looks like a piece of mangosteen. Then it gets a little fatter then it turns into a coin. Right? Progression. And when you see the moon like that, and every time you see the orange sun, is the process going to repeat itself? Which means one thing will lead to another, will lead to another, will lead to another. Then Allah says, by the way, just like that, you will go from one stage to the next to the next to the next to the next. Just like the orange sky turns colors, you one time we're living inside the stomach of your mother, the rent was paid, the food was paid for. Air conditioning was provided. You didn't have to take care of anything. You didn't have to clean anything. You could have lived there forever. But you know what? Just like the orange sky turns colors, you had to leave that home eventually. And you did. When you were a baby, everything was still kind of taken care of. You didn't have to even burp yourself. Clean your own poo. Everything was taken care of, but you started growing older and older, and you went from the diaper to the pull up to the pants and then eventually you're standing up and you're walking and you're talking and you were a kid. You didn't have responsibility. But you can't stay a kid forever. You got older and you had to go to school and from school you had to go to high school and from high school you have to go to college and from college, you have to go get a job and then hopefully get married and have children and get old and watch your children get old or older. You know? You go from one stage to the next to the next to the next, and then eventually you're gonna die, and then you're gonna go into grave, and then your body's gonna deteriorate. And then just like that, the next stage will come and Allah will raise you out of your grave. You can't help it. Just like you couldn't stay inside the stomach of your mother. You will not stay inside the stomach of the earth. It will give you birth again. You will come out again. Then you will stand in front of Allah and the questioning will happen and the whole-- there's no way out of this. There's no way out of this. And if you ever forget that there is no way out of this. Just look at the orange sky next time. Uh huh, The orange sky should remind you you're going to go from one stage to the next to the next to the next. The other meaning of this Ayah, which is really beautiful, is that the Prophet ﷺ  is making D'awah in Makkah doesn't seem like he's making much progress. People are not accepting Islam in huge numbers. Actually, the enemies are getting worse and worse. And yet Allah is telling him, listen, this is part of how progression happens eventually, some more eventually some more, eventually some more. And maybe in the beginning your efforts will be like a thin moon. But as the time progresses, it will become full like the full moon. Eventually, all all of victory will come. Maybe maybe we should learn that lesson and understand what Allah is saying to the entire Ummah. People get really easily depressed about the state of the Ummah and the corruption and the political chaos and the wars and the famine and the hunger and the, you know, the civil war and all the strife that's happening inside the Ummah. May Allah protect our mothers and our children and our fathers and our families all over this Ummah, right? But we get depressed about that and Allah is saying , look, things are bad, but you have to go through stages one after another after another. The other idea here is, by the way, when the moon is full does it deteriorate again? Sure, when the night is dark, does day come back again? In other words, even when you do get to a point where you have victory and you have everything is working out, is it going to last forever? No, that is the nature of life. There's up and there's down and there's up and there's down. Islam is not asking you to be perfect or to attain a perfect society. Islam is asking you to make efforts towards better and better. Allah will not judge you on how perfect you and I were Allah will judge us on how much effort we made to make things better. That's what we're being judged on. It's a beautiful imagery captured inside these words. Then I want to share with you an example of another oath in the Qur'an. Let's talk about (وَالْعَادِيَاتِ) I think Allah you saw the animation for (وَالْعَادِيَاتِ) وَالْعَادِيَاتِ ضَبْحًا Allah swears by horses that are going into battle horses that are going to go into battle and (عَادِيَات) actually, it's Jam'u Qilla (جمع قلة) the Aat (آت) at the end tells you that it's Jam'u Qilla And the kinds of horses that are brewed for battle they're, you know, they're trained to run extra fast. They're usually the feminine, the female horse, the mare, because she is lighter and she runs faster. That's why (عَادِيَاتِ) is used and they're aggressive. That's why the word 'Ada is used here. They're aggressive horses. And the images and when you use Aat (آت) you're saying there are less than ten of them, so I want to paint this picture for you. There are less than 10 horses that are riding super fast, and as they are riding, the Hal(حال) of them is Dabha(ضبحا). What that means is-- They're riding and they're panting. So the scene opens this movie begins with horses riding and the camera's on their mouth, and you know that's what's happening. And,
وَالْعَادِيَاتِ ضَبْحًا Then the camera goes to their feet, فَالْمُورِيَاتِ قَدْحًا
and I swear by them as they-- when they strike the rocks the every-- the horseshoe hits a rock and sparks fly. Sparks fly when the shoe hits the rock, so the camera was on their mouth. Now it's where? At their feet. فَالْمُورِيَاتِ قَدْحًا
فَالْمُغِيرَاتِ صُبْحًا This is where things get interesting. فَالْمُغِيرَاتِ صُبْحًا Then these horses that are running so fast that sparks are flying from their feet, they are about to raid a caravan or they're about to raid the enemy. They're about to attack the enemy. صُبْحًا
Is that nighttime or morning time? That's the morning time. Now there are two problems with that. In the morning, there's moisture in the air, which means the rocks have water on them, which means it's even crazier that sparks are flying anyway. Even though there's water on the rocks, that's how intensely fast the horses are running. The second problem is the best time to raid a caravan, since you have Allah experience trading caravans, the best time to raid a caravan is when? Night time. But these guys don't care. They want the enemy to see them coming. So they decide to raid the caravan when? In the morning. See if you're small in number, then you have to hide in the darkness. You have to take advantage of the guerilla style warfare where you attack and you run away. But these guys don't care. It's like a suicide mission for them. They're going in any way. They're coming in the morning and by the way, by the morning, the enemy's forces and their security and their guard is up. They're ready. So He says subhanahu wa ta'ala He says,
فَالْمُورِيَاتِ قَدْحًا
فَالْمُغِيرَاتِ صُبْحًا Then He says, (فَأَثَرْنَ بِهِ نَقْعًا) something even stranger. He says, as a result of those horses running so fast, they caused clouds of dust to rise. They're running so fast-- you know I want you-- to show you-- see this camera. I want you to imagine I'm the soldier on the enemy's side. I'm holding my spear, and I'm ready for them cause I'm gonna stab the horse. And from a long distance I don't see any horses, but what do I see? Dust rising. And I go. Mm hmm. Dust is rising. And eventually, when the when they come in and attack the caravan or they attack the enemy, then there's gonna be dust everywhere, and you can't see what's going on. There's chaos. 
فَأَثَرْنَ بِهِ نَقْعًا And in the chaos, these people come. And what does Allah say? فَوَسَطْنَ بِهِ جَمْعًا They penetrate the lines of the forces. They get right to the middle, meaning, you know, the enemy forces they're in rows. File one, File two, File three. These these horses, they break through the lines and now they're in the middle of the enemy. So where is the enemy with respect to these horses now? It's all around. So the camera is giving you a 360 view. The enemies all around them and they're in the middle. I told you yesterday that poetry was the entertainment industry of the Arabs. If they wanted to watch a movie, they listened to what? The poets. And these Ayat Allah did not tell me about Taqwa or Iman. Allah did not tell me about the Akhira. Allah did not teach me about Halal and Haram. Allah did not teach me about previous nations. Allah taught me about what? Battle horses, whose really into battle horses? The Mushrikun of Arabia. They're really into this stuff, and they're already thinking, wow, this is a pretty awesome movie. It began with the action scene. They're ready to go into battle. They hit, hit the enemy, they got right into the middle of it, and they're popping the popcorn and like what happened next? Now, if you have ever seen a movie, of course you haven't you're Muslims. But if you if you ever did see a movie, you would know there's such a thing as an action movie trailer and in the action movie trailer what they do is they try to get you excited. So they take the two scenes in the movie that are worth watching and they put that in the trailer. So you watch the rest of the garbage film and in the movie there's two guys that are about to fight each other, and this guy is running from this side that guy's running from that side and they're about to punch each other. But they didn't show the punch. Right before they punch each other screen turns black This June. Right? Come on. I want to see what happens to his face. Now I have to go. Let's watch it now. You know? These guys, these horses, these Arabs, they really love their horses. They really loved it. Like you know, young men nowadays they're into cars. There are into sports, their into movies. This is a combination of all of those things. Okay? And so this scene is painted and the Arab is waiting. So what happens next? Yo what happened? What happened? Tell me what happened. The Mushrik is waiting for more Qur'an. Allah stopped the movie. Put it-- stop. He said,
إِنَّ الإِنسَانَ لِرَبِّهِ لَكَنُودٌ No doubt the human being is not loyal to his Master. What? What about the horse? Tell me more about the horse. What about humans? I don't want to know about the human. I want to know about the horse. What is the connection between these horses and the human being? An animal has certain instincts. An animal's instinct is that when it sees danger, it runs the other way. An animal's instinct is that of survival. But the horse. This horse is so loyal to his master that it sees the enemy's spears and still, as fast as it can, it runs towards its own death, doesn't it? So the Arab is listening to this story about how loyal the battle horse is. It is willing to sacrifice itself, run into death itself for the sake of who? The master. And Allah paints this scene and says, by the way, Arab, who owns a horse. You also have a master. But you're not that loyal. إِنَّ الإِنسَانَ لِرَبِّهِ لَكَنُودٌ The way of Allah makes the argument. The way Allah's set the scene for this lesson. He could have just said human beings aren't loyal. He could have just said that. But no, He wanted to give you some evidence. What does loyalty mean anyway? Do you have any idea what loyalty means? Oh, yes, you do. You want a horse and you've raided caravans before, so you know. So let me use what you know and teach you a lesson. Subhanallah. These are Surahs of the Qur'an to teach us the legacy of the Qur'an is to relate to people when you teach them about your Deen. You have to understand where people are coming from. Allah didn't just talk about the Ghaib, Allah didn't just talk about you know Iman, Allah didn't just talk about Taqwa. Allah also talked about things that interested the Arabs because they needed that stuff to hear so they can make sense of this Deen. Allah chose to talk about things that would really, really spark their interest. This is a method of the Qur'an, which means we have to learn this method in our times to revive the interest in this Deen. Mashallah, there are so many of you sitting in the audience today. But there are so many, many, many Muslims here in this country and all over the world that are Muslims that are losing interest in there Deen They're not interested anymore. And our job as an Ummah is to revive not only the non-Muslim's interest in this religion, but also the Muslim's interest in this religion. And we have to learn the legacy of the Qur'an in doing so. Maybe they're not into horses. Maybe they're into something else. And we need to know what they're into, and we need to use it to bring them back to the Deen. This is-- Qur'an is not just knowledge. It is a way of thinking. You remember that? if it was just about knowledge we'd always be talking about horses. But if it's about thinking, then we learn the strategy and apply it outside of the text too. It becomes a way for us to process information. This is I'm hoping one of the one of the benefits that comes out of today's discussions, is you adopt a Qur'an ironic way of thinking. Now, Qur'an is a certain way that it expects you to think. Expects you to carry yourself in D'awah, You know? Expects you to process the realities of life. I want to give you an introduction first then I'll give you some examples of examples. I want to take extra time on this section because all of the examples are beautiful. So I want to give you as many as I can. Okay? Bear with me. We're gonna be in this section for a while. Even if I have to compromise other sections. I would rather we spend some time in this section because it's just that cool. Okay? I'll give you at least one before we give--we take a break. The purpose of an example is as follows. A teacher gives an example because it makes the subject easy to understand for a student. Right? Sometimes the subject matter in physics and mathematics and chemistry whatever, is hard to understand. A good teacher will give you easy examples so you can relate to what he's saying. Because the subject matter itself is too abstract, they can't relate to it. So what does it mean to give a good example? The conditions for a good example: is easy to follow and relatable. Right? And leads you to the point. Meaning the lesson. Like you see the point for why the example is given. We have this interesting phenomenon in the United States that you are saved from here in Malaysia. I told you many of our Masajid, we don't have Imams. So people from the community have to give Khutbah. And if you are, if you're living in New York and you're working in the financial district, some uncle, some some elder from the community who's a financial analyst will give the Khutbah. And if you're in Detroit and you're in the car sector, where the car companies are, some mechanical engineer is going through the Khutbah. And if you're working near a hospital at the Masjid, a doctor is going to give the Khutbah. And Mashallah they're giving good Khutbahs. And they like to sometimes, you know, get creative and give examples in there. What happens a lot of times is they give examples that have to do with their own profession, and nobody understands what they're talking about. So the engineer says, Islam Taqwa is like the piston of an engine, and you have to apply the pressure for the calibration--and I'm like whoa. Then you go to the doctor Khutbah. Iman is like blood pressure. And you're lost again. Then you go to the accounting Khutbah. The day of judgment is like tax day. There's debit and there's credit, and you know. There are tax breaks and. I mean, I finished the Khutbah and I just filed my taxes afterwards. You know, what else to do? In other words, people give examples sometimes, but unfortunately, sometimes the examples instead of making the subject easier they end up making the subject harder and sometimes the examples this is a really fun one when somebody comes and gives an example and the example is so long and elaborate that they forget why they were giving the example. So and then since they forget, nobody else knows what happened either. and then Aqimisalat (اقم الصلاة) So a good example should be easy to follow. Makes sense. It should be straight to the point; that makes sense. And it should come back to the original lesson because you were there not to give an example but the purpose of the example was to teach you a lesson. That's what it should be. Applying these rules a German Orientalist, a scholar of Islam, a non-Muslim scholar of Islam and a critic of Islam Nöldeke extensively wrote a criticism against the Qur'an, in which he talked about the fact that the Qur'an gives senseless examples, irrational examples and his paper was based on this example. His paper was actually based on this Ayah from Surat al-Hajj. The Ayah says,
حُنَفَآءَ لِلَّهِ غَيْرَ مُشْرِكِينَ بِهِ People that are solely dedicated to Allah while they don't do any Shirk with Him. وَمَن يُشْرِكْ بِاللَّ
And whoever would commit the crime of Shirk with Allah whoever would associate anybody else with Allah, فَكَأَنَّمَا خَرَّ مِنَ السَّمَاء
Then it is as though he fell from the sky. So the guy who does the crime of blasphemy with God, associate someone with Allah is compared to someone who is falling from the sky. Nöldeke says that doesn't make any sense. Nobody ever falls from the sky. An example is supposed to be relatable. Who can relate to someone falling from space? Then He says, the Qur'an says فَتَخْطَفُهُ الطَّيْرُ
Then birds are chewing on him. He's falling from the sky and then birds are coming and they're eating from him while he's falling from the sky. That makes even less sense. What kind of birds are these that are eating a guy as he's falling from the sky? This is the weirdest scene ever 
فَتَخْطَفُهُ الطَّيْرُ Then on top of that the Ayah ends, 
 أَوْ تَهْوِي بِهِ الرِّيحُ فِي مَكَانٍ سَحِيقٍ Or finally the wind blows him away to an uncharted location. He says if you're falling from the sky, whether you fall somewhere unknown in the middle of the woods, in the middle of the jungle, you fall on top of a mountain or you fall in the middle of Times Square in New York City, what difference does it make? You'r dead. Doesn't make any sense. And he wrote this very convincing paper about how the example of the Qur'an is not-- impossible to relate to. It's difficult to relate to. The problem here is there's a lack of appreciation of verbal idioms, of expressions of the Arabic language. I'm gonna give you a little bit of a picture. This idea is about people who do Shirk, yes? People who do Shirk in Makkah, they had no concept of afterlife. A lot of them did not believe in another life. This is the only life. This is the only life. Let me tell you something else about the people who do Shirk in Arabia at the time. Not only did they believe this is the only life when you believe this is the only life, then what is going to be left of you after you're gone? Think about that. What of you is left after you're gone? Your children. Maybe your name, your memory, your legacy, right? If you don't believe in an afterlife, human beings have a desire to live on. You know that? Inherently, we have a desire to live on. So if you don't believe in Jannah and Jahannam and Qiyama, you don't believe in any of that stuff. Then you know what you say to yourself? I need to figure out a way to live on. So what do people do when they don't believe in an afterlife? They decide that they're going to do something that will force people to remember their name. So nowadays you'll have people that are very wealthy and they're 99 years old and they're about to die. And they donate all of their wealth to a hospital. They were cheap their entire life. They kept millions to themselves that they never spent. But as soon as they're about to die, they give the whole thing to charity. Like, it's a really generous thing to do. Generous? You weren't going to have it. You're dead. But they give it, why? Because they put a condition. If I give this to this hospital, you have to build a statue of me at the entrance of the hospital that says the 'Really old dead guy, College of Medicine'. Why do they do this? They need their name to live on. There's a desire for a human being to become immortal, and actually Allah put that desire in us because He wants us to earn Jannah. That's inside of us, to want to want to earn His paradise. But anyway, let's go back to the Mushrik. The Mushrik back in the day is not going to give millions of dollars in donations and get his monument made. How did he live on forever? He lived on forever because for the Arabs, do you know that they used to love going into fights right? Battles. And so he wants to live on by his-- the legend of his fight skills. He's big on fight skills. Now let's paint this picture. There are two tribes that are going into battle. One tribe is on top of the mountain. The other tribe is at the bottom of the mountain. Who's got the military advantage? People on top. The people at the bottom even though the people on top have the advantage the people on the bottom climbed up all the way to the top of the mountain, defeated the tribe at the top of the mountain. And not only did they defeat them, they threw their dead bodies off the cliff as an added humiliation. And the other scenario is that the people on top of the cliff, they were so scared to fight the guys at the bottom, though they had to pick: Should I die at the hand of my enemy? Or should I just jump off the cliff? And they decided to jump off the cliff. When the Arabs died a death because they were no good at fighting or because they were cowards, then they used to say he fell from the sky. They used to say what? He fell from the sky. Meaning he died the death of a loser or he died the death of a coward. And the worst thing, the worst, most humiliating thing that Mushrik could ever hear about his father or about his grandfather or about his son is, your that guy's dad? Oh, the guy who fell from the sky. The worst humiliation for him because, understand, Shirk is humiliating. It's a humiliating thing to do Shirk. But the Mushrikun don't understand that what the humiliation of judgment they will look like. They don't believe in it, so they have to be given a picture that they can relate to. So Allah gave them a picture they can relate to. What's the closest thing to humiliation they can relate to? The association of someone falling from the sky. Now, in a battle when somebody falls from the cliff, which is what they call falling from the sky when somebody falls from a cliff, his dead body's at the bottom, mangled and broken up and bloodied. What happens at the end of ancient battles? Your own people come, they collect your body and they give it a proper burial. Isn't that the case? But these dead soldiers? These dead warriors are such an embarrassment to their own people that nobody came to bury them. Nobody can-- their own people disown them. So their funeral service was not offered by their own tribes. Their funeral service was offered by certain birds. What kinds of birds are we talking about? Vultures. Birds are chewing on their corpse and these birds are known for eating disgusting things, isn't it? But even these birds, after a while of eating from them, say, the rest of that is way too dirty even for me. I don't even want it, and they fly away. What comes next? Winds come. And the little scum that's left of these people is blown off to uncharted locations. Humiliation of falling from the sky, humiliation of vultures eating off of your corpse and the humiliation of your flesh and bones being scattered on the Earth to unknown places. For the Arab who didn't believe in an afterlife, the only thing he wanted was at least people will respect me after I'm gone. The worst thing he could imagine has been described. أَوْ تَهْوِي بِهِ الرِّيحُ فِي مَكَانٍ سَحِيقٍ An example is supposed to be direct. It's supposed to be relatable. What we are learning here is that it was directly relatable to the Arabs, and once we understand that principle, we understand that we want to give examples to people and help things become understandable for people. We have to give relatable examples, which means we have to understand the culture in which we live, or the culture that we are giving D'awah to to be able to relate to where they're coming from. You understand? That's the lesson in this Ayah. You guys doing okay? Can you handle one more or should I give you a break? One more. One more. Okay, one more. One more Promise. One more. This one's, of the examples, this one's my favorite. Listen to the translation
ثُمَّ قَسَتْ قُلُوبُكُم مِّن بَعْدِ ذَلِكَ Then your hearts became hard. Even after that had happened. فَهِيَ كَالْحِجَارَةِ Then your hearts became like stone. أَوْ أَشَدُّ قَسْوَةً
 Or they became even harder than stone. وَإِنَّ مِنَ الْحِجَارَةِ لَمَا يَتَفَجَّرُ مِنْهُ الأَنْهَارُ Even out of stones there are some stones that explode. Rivers explode out of them. Waterfalls gush out of boulders. 
وَإِنَّ مِنْهَا لَمَا يَشَّقَّقُ فَيَخْرُجُ مِنْهُ الْمَاء And even out of stones there are those that crack open. They don't explode open. They just crack open and some water is found inside. Some water comes out, not rivers come out. Some water comes out. 
وَإِنَّ مِنْهَا لَمَا يَهْبِطُ مِنْ خَشْيَةِ اللَّ And out of stones, there are those that fall from the fear of Allah. وَمَا اللَّهُ بِغَافِلٍ عَمَّا تَعْمَلُونَ And Allah is not at all unaware of the things you're up to, what you're doing. Okay? Seems like this example has to do with lots of different kinds of what? Stones. Stones that explode, stones that crack open and stones that fall from the fear of Allah. But actually, the Ayah did not begin with stones, the Ayah said in the beginning, your hearts became hard. Your heart's became like stone or even worse than stone. So it's actually not three kinds of rocks that we're learning about. We're actually learning about three kinds of hearts. The rocks are being compared to hearts. In order to understand this example better, I'm going to give you a little bit of a conversation about your friends. You have two friends. Somebody says I have no friends. Just pretend, okay? Just pretend. Even you have two friends. One of your friends is very quiet, loves to read, very philosophical. If they speak, they're just she's just reading some line of poetry from somewhere. When you take them to a party, they just go sit next to the bookshelf. Just read, read, read. They're always thinking to themselves, just a philosophical quiet you know, introverted person. You have one of those friends. You have another friend. That friend is never quiet. They never sit in one place. Actually, they've had-- it's been a very painful experience for them sitting here today, they're constantly Hey, I'll be right back. I'll be right back. They need to move around. And they're constantly texting you. Hey, you wanna go out? You wanna get some pizza? You want to go somewhere? You want something? What are you doing? I'm not doing anything. Can I come over? You want to come over? Let's do something. They're always busy. They're always moving. I gotta do something. Let's go fishing. Let's go hiking. Let's go, Let's go, Let's go, Let's go, Let's go. Okay, so you have this quiet friend and you have this hyperactive friend and the three of you go on a road trip together. So you're driving in the car together. And the friend who's hyperactive, he's like, Hey, I'm hungry. Let's go stop somewhere. Let's go look at something. And the guy, the quiet one. What's he doing? He's sitting in the back reading, or he's looking out at the sky. He's thinking about the universe. And he says he turns to you and he says, Have you ever wondered about the sky? And the other friend goes, No. But I wondered about the signs. Where is the sign for the next restaurant? I'm hungry. What do we do? Now you guys, you, the three of you are going to attend an Islamic conference. Okay? You're going to attend an Islamic conference. Do you guys know who Imam Siraj Wahaj is, by the way? Some of you know, if you don't know, you should know. Look him up. Imam Siraj Wahaj is a very old friend of mine. He's one of the most amazing public speakers ever. He is an incredible orator. He's really exciting. Uh, but he's also kind of crazy. He's kind of crazy. He says the craziest things. But you know, when you go to one of his speeches, boy, you're gonna come out like, that was awesome. So one of the speakers at the convention is Imam Siraj. Another speaker at the convention, I'm not gonna, name him is a great scholar of Hadith. He's an academic. He speaks like this, Allah Subhanahu wa ta'ala says in Surat al-Baqara a'uzu billahi minash shaitan rajeem bismillahi rahmani rahim الم And in the Tafsir of Imam al-Qurtubi on page number 435. The scholar is going to give a five hour lecture on Hadith, and Imam Siraj Wahaj Is going to give a 20 minute speech. But his speech is always-- like he can make you excited about anything. Imam Siraj can make you excited about anything. I was attending Imam Siraj's speech one time and you know he loves to tell stories about himself. Because he was raised as a non-Muslim. He took Shahada later on in life. And he's telling a story he goes, when I was a child, I had a dog And one guy in the back goes, takbir.

He can make you excited about anything. By the way, after the speech of Imam Siraj, you're like, What did he talk about? I don't know. I think he had a dog, though. Yeah? So now you have two friends, the hyperactive friend and this quiet, inquisitive intellectual friend. Which one wants to go to Imam Siraj's speech? The hyperactive friend. Let's go to Imam Siraj's speech it is gonna be awesome. And the inquisitive friend says no, but we have to attend the five hour Hadith seminar. I brought five pens with me so I can color code my notes. So they're both-all three of you are sitting in the five hour hadith lecture Narrated by Imam al-Bukhari That lecture what's happening to the hyperactive friend in this time? Uh, they're almost dead.

And then the whole thing is over. It's time for Imam Siraj's lecture. So the hyperactive friend turns to the quiet friend. He says, Okay, okay. I did your lecture. Can we go to Imam Siraj Wahaj's talk? And the intellectual friend goes, but I don't really learn anything at his lectures. I tried to take notes last time. All I have is he had a dog.

I don't care. And then he says, then the friends, the intellectual friend says, Okay, I'll attend a lecture, but what's the topic? And you're hyperactive friend says, the topic is what Imam Siraj Wahaj's talking. Let's go. We're going. And he takes them to the lecture. And who's enjoying this lecture? The hyperactive friend. You have two different kinds of friends. Now I brought this up because there are different kinds of people aren't there? People have different personalities. Were there different kinds of Sahaba? Sure. Abu Bakar radiallahu 'anhu was very quiet, very poetic, very philosophical. Never really spoke unless he had to. radiallahu 'anhu before Islam, you know what he was busy doing? Riding horses, punching dudes. Like he was doing his thing. He was I mean, he was if there's a if there's a the term gangster can be used for someone in Mecca before Islam, it would be for Omar radiallahu 'anhu. Even even someone liek Hamza radiallahu 'anhu before Islam, these people were not necessarily associated with sitting and reading and they were busy having a good time. They were living life. They were hiking and they were fishing and they were horseback riding and they were wrestling and they were doing stuff. They're busy. You know how Abu Bakr Siddiq accepted Islam immediately? You know how long before Umar and Hamza accepted Islam? Six years. Six years. The question is, what are they doing for six years? They're doing stuff. They're busy, you know? They're busy. You have friends like this. You have friends that are very serious about their Deen. You have other friends, they're good people, but they're just busy doing stuff. They're busy in sports, They're busy in games, They're busy on Facebook. They're busy just going on road trips and vacations and they're they're just busy. And when you try to talk to them, they're too busy for it. Isn't that the case? You know these Ayat they are an indication that there are different kinds of people and some rocks, they explode on their own. And some rocks, it takes a while before they crack. The first kind of rock is a rock that explodes on its own and rivers come out. This is kind of like the heart of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu ta'ala 'anhu it was already gushing with faith. By the way, water is a symbol of purity and purity is associated with Iman. So Iman was already inside his heart. So when the rock opened up, there was what inside? Rivers of faith was already inside. Umar radiallahu ta'ala 'anhu had potential Iman inside him the whole time, did it come out easily? No, it took a while, but eventually that rock will crack. And when it cracks, what do you find inside it also? You find water inside there too. Faith was there too. You have some friends they may not be you may not be able to change them through an intellectual argument or a four hour long lecture or an eight hour long seminar. This may not be the place for them, but if they go to a five, they watch a five minute YouTube clip. They listen to something for three minutes. Their life changes. And there are some people who say, who needs this three minute stuff? This is not for the serious Talib al-'Ilm. I need something that's at least two hours. I need books. I need this. I need that. And that's for them that's fine. But for other people, they need something much easier, you understand? And it might take a while before they crack open. And Wallahi there are some people the only way that their heart opens up is when they're rattled, when they're shaken and they can either be shaken by a powerful speech or they can be shaken by a powerful event in their life. It could be a car accident. It could be something that happened at school. It could be a friend that passed away. Something happened and it shook them up and their life changed. There are people like that too. So the first kind of heart is the heart of Ihsan. The second kind of heart is still the heart of Iman. But the Ayah does not have two rocks. It has three rocks. The first heart Ihsan, the second heart Iman, what do you think the third heart is going to be? Islam. Now the thing is, it's interestingly in the third heart that's mentioned وَإِنَّ مِنْهَا لَمَا يَهْبِطُ مِنْ خَشْيَةِ اللَّهِ Qut of these stones there are the kinds of rocks that fall apart they fall down because of the fear of Allah. But Allah did not mention any water in the third heart. And what did water symbolize anyway? What did it symbolize? Faith. So it's seems somehow when Allah talked about the heart that has Islam, He didn't mention the water, which is incredible because in Surat al-Hujarat He let us know وَلَمَّا يَدْخُلِ الإيمَانُ فِي قُلُوبِكُمْ Iman has not entered your hearts yet. You're Muslim, but Iman hasn't entered yet. Your rock does not have water yet. Your rock does not have water yet. Just be patient. Keep obeying Allah and His Messenger. Keep trying. And eventually it will cultivate water. But right now it doesn't have it yet. But it still falls from the fear of Allah. Just like the Muslim still falls in Sajda from the fear of Allah. Now this entire parable, three kinds of people: the people of Ihsan, the people of Iman and the people of Islam. Three different kinds of personalities. Even you can say this entire parable was given using rocks. The question then is why use rocks? Why not use something else? Why not use something else? What did I say? What are the rules for a good example? It has to be easy to follow. Two it has to be what? Relatable. This Ayah belongs to Surat al-Baqara. In the beginning. And in the beginning Allah was talking to Bani Israel and Bani Israel have a huge big memory in their hearts and in their minds of water coming out of rocks when the 12 springs gushed open. So Allah chose an example that is easy for them to visualize, because Allah gives examples that are relatable. And this was relatable to the Israelites. Subhanallah. The perfection of examples in the Qur'an. And Allah is not aware of what you're doing. Allah is not unaware of what you're doing. He's not unaware.
