بِسْمِ اللَّهِ الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيم اَلْحَمْدُ لِلَّٰهِ وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى رَسُولِ اللهِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ اَجْمَعِينَ اَمَّا بَعْدُ I was making reference to the idea that there are two dimensions Tadabbur (تدبر) before we, you know, went into further case studies of the Qur'an. The thing about Tadabbur is it's not an extra
superfluous kind of exercise. It has two functions. And both of those functions are mentioned by Allah by way of criticism. Meaning the consequence of not doing Tadabbur. The phrase occurring in the Qur'an is: أَفَلَا يَتَدَبَّرُونَ ٱلْقُرْءَانَ Don't they then contemplate the Qur'an? Don't they then reflect on the Qur'an? Don't they seek the meaning behind the wording of the Qur'an? Okay? But that's the opening statement 
أَفَلَا يَتَدَبَّرُونَ ٱلْقُرْءَانَ The closing of that statement is two variations. So it occurs twice that statement in the Qur'an. And both times it says two different things. Not that's really interesting. أَمْ عَلَىٰ قُلُوبٍ أَقْفَالُهَآ Or is it the case that the hearts have their own locks placed on them?

The Ayah, which we'll get into a little bit.
Before I do, just to give you the basics. Allah is saying not reflecting on the Qur'an is an indication of locks on hearts. Meaning not contemplating on the Qur'an is a spiritual problem. And contemplating on the Qur'an vice versa, what will it do? It'll unlock hearts. It'll open hearts up. So the act of Tadabbur is directly related to the the the health of one's heart. It's a spiritual exercise. Okay? If you look at the other case in the Qur'an: أَفَلَا يَتَدَبَّرُونَ ٱلْقُرْءَانَ ۚ وَلَوْ كَانَ مِنْ عِندِ غَيْرِ ٱللَّهِ لَوَجَدُواْ فِيهِ ٱخْتِلَٰفًا كَثِيرًا Don't they then contemplate on the Qur'an? Had it been from someone other than Allah, they would have found a lot of contradiction in it. If you don't ponder the Qur'an, it will appear as though the Qur'an has a lot of contradictions. And if you reflect on the Qur'an, then you'll realize that it does not have any contradictions. And actually you'll also realize that it can only be from Allah. Meaning your conviction that it is from Allah will be strengthened and reinforced by way of what? Contemplation. What does that mean then? That means that our Iman our faith is two things. It's in our hearts, and it's in our minds. Tadabbur in one Ayah fortifies the heart. Unlocks the heart and Tadabbur in the other Ayah gets rid of all the contradictions. Where do-- where does someone think about contradictions? Things not reconciling? Is that a heart problem or a mind problem? Mhm. That's a mind problem. So Tadabbur on the Qur'an fortifies your faith intellectually. Gets rid of the contradictions. And Tadabbur on the Qur'an unlocks your heart. It's got a spiritual impact and it's got a uh, an intellectual impact. This is actually the two dimensions of our relationship with the Qur'an. This is it's, you know, on the on the Manafi' (منافع) side. The benefit of the Qur'an is to your heart and to your mind. This is Allays says, for example, about the people of the soundest mind. He says: ٱلَّذِينَ يَذْكُرُونَ ٱللَّهَ قِيَٰمًا وَقُعُودًا وَعَلَىٰ جُنُوبِهِمْ وَيَتَفَكَّرُونَ فِى خَلْقِ ٱلسَّمَٰوَٰتِ وَٱلْأَرْضِ [incorrect] رَبَّنَا مَا خَلَقْتَ هَٰذَا بَٰطِلًا Why? They remember Allah all the time; standing, sitting on their sides. Remembrance is in the heart. And they think about the creation of the skies in the earth. That's in the mind. Heart and mind. Reflection is about heart and mind. One Ayah is about reflection having to do with the heart, the other reflection having to do with the mind. I'm going to highlight the one with the heart just for a little bit. أَفَلَا يَتَدَبَّرُونَ ٱلْقُرْءَانَ أَمْ عَلَىٰ قُلُوبٍ أَقْفَالُهَآ This Ayah, uh, interestingly it doesn't say: Don't they ponder on the Qur'an then? Or do the hearts have locks on them? It doesn't say that. Do the hearts have their own locks on them? (أَقْفَالُهَآ) (أَمْ عَلَىٰ قُلُوبٍ أَقْفَالٌ) Or did the hearts have locks? No. Do they have their own locks? There are some tendencies inside our hearts that can get aggravated, that can get excited. And they can lock us up like. There's no lock coming from the outside. The tendency to destroy ourselves exist from within. There are things that we put inside of us. There are appetites, desires, uh, emotions that Allah put inside of us that can become self consuming. Anger is a healthy emotion, but it can take over you. It could lock you up. Fear is a healthy emotion, but it could take over you, and it could lock you up. Sadness is a healthy emotion. You need it sometimes. But it can take over you. It can destroy you. At some level greed is important. At some level, you know, aspiring to get more as part of getting up and earning a living. It's important but over-- too much greed and what's gonna happen? It's gonna destroy you. The desire human-- men have for women or women have for men at some level is healthy. But if you let it take over you, it's gonna destroy you. The things that we put inside of our hearts, they can overwhelm and lock us up. One of the benefits of this Ayah is contemplating on the Qur'an will actually keep our emotions in check. And not let those tendencies take over. Okay, that's one of one of the- like it'll create emotional balance. This is, in a sense, the Qur'an also teaching that Qur'an is not just spiritual healing, but it's also emotional healing. That our emotions are also put in check and kept balanced because of our contemplation, our engagement with Allah's Word. The other thing that I want to highlight here is when you say their hearts, you know, let me use a figure of speech. Their heart is just made up. Their heart is a cement. When somebody has their mind made up, they don't want to change their opinion about something. They're rigid. That's also an expression of a heart being locked. No matter what I do, they are not going to budge from their position. When you come to the Qur'an with presuppositions: I already know what it means. I'm only looking for the Daleel (دليل)
evidence to further substantiate what I already know. Then you're not doing to the Tadabbur. Because you came to it with Aqfal (أَقْفَالُ). You're not looking for what's behind the words because you're assuming you already have what's behind the words. You understand. You have to let your preset positions go. You have to not look at the Qur'an-and unfortunately even devout Muslims can become such that they're looking for Ayay to quote as someone. Because they've already made up their mind what they want out of the Qur'an. I want this Ayah to slap my mother-in-law with. Can you find me something? I want something to say about these people who said this, this and this. I want to say something to my brother who did this that the other day. Where is the Ayah? I've already made up my mind what I'm going to get out of the Qur'an. My locks already there. Therefore, I'm not looking for the Qur'an to-- for me to serve Allah's Word. And to me-- for me to be at the service of Allah's Word. But rather I want my locked up heart to, you know, for it to be served. Buy some references. Don't they ponder the Qur'an? أَمْ عَلَىٰ قُلُوبٍ أَقْفَالُهَآ So may Allah protect us from that spiritual crisis. Okay. I want to take you to our next case study. And that is Surat al-Qiyamah. And it is an interesting, really interesting transition in Ayat that is very clearly unrelated. Like at the face value, it couldn't be more unrelated. So I'm going to read the translation from the beginning once again. So you know what the subject matter is about and then get to the Ayat that clearly have nothing to do with the rest of the subject at face value. لا أُقْسِمُ بِيَوْمِ الْقِيَامَةِ
No! I swear by the Day of Standing, Resurrection. وَلا
And no! أُقْسِمُ بِالنَّفْسِ اللَّوَّامَةِ
 I take an oath. I swear by the guilty self. The self that blames one's own over and over. أَيَحْسَبُ الإِنسَانُ أَلَّن نَجْمَعَ عِظَامَهُ Has the human being assumed that We're not going to gather his bones together? بَلَى 
Of course 
قَادِرِينَ عَلَى أَن نُّسَوِّيَ بَنَانَهُ We are capable of even putting his bones, his fingertips back together. بَلْ يُرِيدُ الإِنسَانُ لِيَفْجُرَ أَمَامَهُ Instead the human being just wants to explode into whatever comes in front of him. Basically saying the human being is just impulsive. Human beings don't care about the Day of Judgment. They don't care about resurrection because they're too busy jumping into what is right in front of them. What's the next party? What's the next app? What's the next game? What's the next movie? They're just immediately into the next, the next, the next the next (يَفْجُرَ أَمَامَهُ). يَسْأَلُ أَيَّانَ يَوْمُ الْقِيَامَةِ
And he has the audacity to ask: when come on, when is the day of resurrection anyway? Why are you talking to me about that right now? I have something I want to do right now. That's when it is we'll deal with it. فَإِذَا بَرِقَ الْبَصَرُ
وَخَسَفَ الْقَمَرُ
وَجُمِعَ الشَّمْسُ وَالْقَمَرُ And then all of a sudden, when eyes are flinching because of the flashes وَخَسَفَ الْقَمَرُ
They're blinded by the flashes. And the the moon starts sinking. وَجُمِعَ الشَّمْسُ وَالْقَمَرُ
And the sun and the moon have merged with each other. يَقُولُ الإِنسَانُ يَوْمَئِذٍ أَيْنَ الْمَفَرُّ Then the human being, the same
human being who's saying: When is it coming? When is it coming? Come on! Where can I run off to? كَلاَّ 
No, no, no. لا وَزَرَ
There is no place to find refuge. There's no barrier. There's no barricade between you and that Day. إِلَى رَبِّكَ يَوْمَئِذٍ الْمُسْتَقَرُّ
To your Master alone on that Day is going to be the place where you have to stay. To come and stand. يُنَبَّأُ الإِنسَانُ يَوْمَئِذٍ  
The human being will be informed thoroughly on that day بِمَا قَدَّمَ وَأَخَّرَ
whatever priorities he made, whatever procrastination he did. Whatever took the front seat. Whatever took the backseat. He's going to be told thoroughly.
بَلِ الإِنسَانُ عَلَى نَفْسِهِ بَصِيرَةٌ Instead the human being even
now is in full view of his own self. وَلَوْ أَلْقَى مَعَاذِيرَهُ Even though he keeps throwing out excuses. Now so far, it's about people who are skeptical about Judgment Day. And how shocked they are going to be when it does come And how not not concerned about it they are right now. Now listen [لا تُحَرِّكْ] this is the part that's apparently not related. لا تُحَرِّكْ بِهِ لِسَانَكَ لِتَعْجَلَ بِهِ
Do not rush your tongue by the Qur'an using it, meaning the Qur'an, so you can acquire it quickly. Don't move your tongue to acquire the Qur'an quickly. Who's is it talking to? The Prophet ﷺ. The Prophet is concerned he's gonna lose
Qur'an, so he's trying to rush to memorize it. Don't move
your tongue like that to get it quickly. إِنَّ عَلَيْنَا جَمْعَهُ وَقُرْآنَهُ It is only Our responsibility to have it gathered and have it recited. You remember this Ayah from yesterday. فَإِذَا قَرَأْنَاهُ فَاتَّبِعْ قُرْآنَهُ And when We have it recited, then just follow it. Then follow that recitation.
ثُمَّ إِنَّ عَلَيْنَا بَيَانَهُ And certainly it is only Our responsibility to clarify it. This is a conversation between Allah and the Prophet, telling the Prophet ﷺ Don't you worry. I'll take care of the Qur'an. Now listen
كَلاَّ بَلْ تُحِبُّونَ الْعَاجِلَةَ No, no, no.
But you people love to rush. You love you love things that come immediately. Going back to the people of this world who are unconcerned with the next world, where the Surah began. وَتَذَرُونَ الآخِرَةَ And you leave the afterlife behind. وُجُوهٌ يَوْمَئِذٍ نَّاضِرَةٌ Some people will be lit on that Day. إِلَى رَبِّهَا نَاظِرَةٌ
Staring at their Master. وَوُجُوهٌ يَوْمَئِذٍ بَاسِرَةٌ تَظُنُّ أَن يُفْعَلَ بِهَا فَاقِرَةٌ Some people--some faces will be overwhelmed with grief. They're gonna keep assuming that some calamity is about to hit them. Strike them. كَلاَّ إِذَا بَلَغَتْ التَّرَاقِيَ وَقِيلَ مَنْ رَاقٍ
No, no, no. When when it reaches all the way to the tip of the throat and it's gonna cry out. Is there any (رَاقٍ)? Is there any reciter? Doctor? Anyone can help?
There's an emergency. This is a (رَاقٍ). You know Ruqya (رقية)? Right. Can someone recite something to help me out here? وَظَنَّ أَنَّهُ الْفِرَاقُ And it'll dawn on him that it's the time to part ways. وَالْتَفَّتِ السَّاقُ بِالسَّاقِ And his heels are going to
start rubbing against each other. This is a person dying in bed. Their body's arching in pain and their legs are you know, they're rubbing against
each other as they're dying. وَالْتَفَّتِ السَّاقُ بِالسَّاقِ إِلَى رَبِّكَ يَوْمَئِذٍ الْمَسَاقُ You're about to be herded only towards your Master now. فَلا صَدَّقَ وَلا صَلَّى وَلَكِن كَذَّبَ وَتَوَلَّى He was-- he didn't confirm
the truth, nor did he pray. Instead, he called it a
lie. And he turned his back. And the Surah goes on again Akhira, Akhira, Akhira. What's the only subject that didn't have to do with the Akhira? The afterlife? The rushing of the Prophet ﷺ to acquire more Qur'an. This is when understanding the entire Surah as a whole helps us understand each component in each part. Okay? They are clearly very defiant about the message of the Akhira. Is, according to the Prophet ﷺ and what he's been taught, is the Day of Judgment near or far? It's near. إِنَّهُمْ يَرَوْنَهُ بَعِيدًا وَنَرَاهُ قَرِيبًا
It's near. The Prophet ﷺ is reciting Qur'an to them. He is giving them these Ayat, these evidences. Are they taking those evidences seriously? No. The Prophet ﷺ is concerned that may be the Ayat that I gave them now did not convince them. Maybe some other Ayat will, and maybe some other Ayat will, and maybe some other Ayat will. And the Prophet ﷺ is in a rush to convince them in some way that they can change course. Maybe it's not becoming clear to them. Maybe some other Ayat will make it clearer to them. Because one way didn't work. I tried to explain it to them by these Ayat, and they just dismissed it. May be the next Surah will help. Maybe the next Ayat will help. So he's quickly acquiring them and trying to rush to get to more and to more and to more. So that he can get them to change course. Because he knows how close it is. How close their destruction is. And here they are, unconcerned.
أَيَّانَ يَوْمُ القيامة The Prophet's rushing is highlighted here to to to to demonstrate how desperate he feels at how unconcerned they are. But now I want you to appreciate. As as soon as Allah criticized the Prophet's rushing. Don't you rush? That's not onto you. That's not up to you. And by the way, you rushing is not why it's not clear to them. Why? [ثُمَّ إِنَّ عَلَيْنَا بَيَانَهُ] It is only Our responsibility to make it clear. That's not up to you. We've already made--the words are clear in and of themselves. You reciting more of it is not going to make it more clear. It's a really profound wisdom inside of these Ayat that when you talk to somebody and they're not convinced about what advice you're trying to give them. What
other Hadith can I quote? What other Ayah can I give them? What other Daleel (دليل) can I throw at them? Maybe that'll work,. And then you
send an email to a Sheikh or whatever: Is there--you know
I was having a discussion with my mom. She doesn't agree with me. What can I tell her more about fearing Allah? Uh, that's not how that works. That's not how that works. You know, you can't just quote more things, give more Ayat. That's not that's not where the problem lies. You know? And so after having said Allah says something remarkable. This is the irony of this Surah. كَلاَّ بَلْ تُحِبُّونَ الْعَاجِلَةَ
Same word. He was told 
لا تُحَرِّكْ بِهِ لِسَانَكَ لِتَعْجَلَ بِهِ Allah swicthes the subject. Turns to the people he's so worried about. And says you people love to rush. Mufassirun look at this Ayah and say "love to rush means" love what comes quickly. And what comes quickly is this life. And what's going to come after a while is the next life. So this is Allah's way of saying you people love this life. But Allah could have just as easily said ad-Dunya. كلا بل تحبون (الدنيا)
He said: كَلاَّ بَلْ تُحِبُّونَ الْعَاجِلَةَ The thing that comes quickly. What benefit does that carry and how is it connected? You see, the Qur'an is saying that when you are defiant of the Prophet ﷺ. And when you ask questions like when is Judgment Day coming. يَسْتَعْجِلُونَكَ بِٱلْعَذَابِ By being this defiant it's like they want to rush the punishment towards themselves. Have you ever seen, like, let me--give you by analogy. Kids misbehaving? Oh, you really want it now, don't you? You know you want to get it right now, don't you? What is the parents saying? Oh, you're about to get you know, a good talk? Not if you're in Pakistan. Okay. You're about to get a different kind of education. Meaning? Oh, yeah. Keep it up. Oh, you love rushing, don't you? You'd like to, you'd like to bring it quickly, wouldn't you? It's as though Allah is contrasting the Prophet's urgency to pull them away with their idiotic urgency to go towards the same fire the Prophet's pulling them out of. And then Allah says Himself: This rush that you have that you're you know, you-- the rush that you have that you're not going to be those lit faces. You're going to be the darkened faces. You don't have to wait until that happens. What about your own death? That's not that far away. And the moment the death comes when the soul is about to reach--leave your bodies then you're not going to be in a rush. Then you're gonna be begging for someone who can slow this down. وَقِيلَ مَنْ رَاقٍ Where's where's your 'Ujla (عجلة) now? Where's the 'Ajila (عاجلة) now? It's gone. So this is actually highlighting in the middle of a Surah that, you know, that that describes the defiance of those who don't believe in the Akhira, the concern of the Prophet ﷺ. And this is-it's not in a literary sense, in a psychological sense. Understand that the Qur'an has multiple audiences. Allah is giving this message to the Quraysh. But who's giving that message, is Rasulallah ﷺ. And he has to be in the middle. Just come down. I got this. I'm gonna get this message to them, but you need to hold your come. Don't you rush. That's not your responsibility. That's My responsibility. You just deliver the reminder as I give it to you. And then go back to the reminder. This beautiful transition actually even reminds us in the middle of this discourse that this discourse is not invented by the Prophet ﷺ. Right? That this conversation is authentic, that it is coming from the Allah. Okay? So that was some of the benefit of- by the way some have also argued like Imam Razi about this transition. This particular one. Uh, he argued that Allah does not like rushing of any kind. Not people who rush into worldly things and and not people who rush into even religious things. Even the Prophet is told to slow down with the Qur'an. So one shouldn't rush with the Qur'an. So that's kind of a side benefit that he mentions of the placement of these Ayat. Okay, I'm gonna move on Inshallah to the next case study. Probably one last one before we take the break for the prayer. Let me see how many I have left. Oh, man, that one's juicy. The last one. Uh, yeah. Okay, there's two more left in this. But we'll do one more Inshallah right now. All right, so this is Surat al-'Ankabut. Surah number 29. The beginning. Let me give you some context. So you appreciate what's going on in Surah number 29. Uh, torture has now become part of the way that Quraysh deal with the Muslims. Okay? They're trying to-they're now starting to become physically hurtful, offensive. Towards the Muslims. People are being beat up. People are being burned. People are being tortured, stepped on, tied up, half buried into the ground, etcetera, etcetera. There's there's all kinds of things that are being done to people because they have now become Muslim. And in response to that, Uh, this Surah came. So keep that in the back of your mind as you look at Allah's way of helping the Muslims through this crisis situation in late Makkah. الم أَحَسِبَ النَّاسُ أَن يُتْرَكُوا أَن يَقُولُوا آمَنَّا وَهُمْ لا يُفْتَنُونَ Alif Lam Mim. Have people assume that they're going to be left alone just because they say they believed? And they're not going to be put through intense testing? وَلَقَدْ فَتَنَّا الَّذِينَ مِن قَبْلِهِمْ We thoroughly tested
those who came before them فَلَيَعْلَمَنَّ اللَّهُ الَّذِينَ صَدَقُوا Then certainly Allah exposed those who were truthful [gibberish] وَلَيَعْلَمَنَّ الْكَاذِبِينَ
Allah certainly will expose the liars. أَمْ حَسِبَ الَّذِينَ يَعْمَلُونَ السَّيِّئَاتِ أَن يَسْبِقُونَا Have those who committed crimes assumed that they  got ahead of us? They got away from us? سَاء مَا يَحْكُمُونَ What a horrible decision they've made. So on the one hand Allah says to the believers: Look, did you think you're not going to be tested? Do you think they're getting away with what they do? They're not getting away. مَن كَانَ يَرْجُو لِقَاء اللَّهِ فَإِنَّ أَجَلَ اللَّهِ لَآتٍ وَهُوَ السَّمِيعُ الْعَلِيمُ Whoever was hopeful of meeting with Allah then you should know that the meeting of Allah is on its way. He is All Hearing, All Knowing. If you were hopeful for relief, escape other refuge, then you were hoping for the wrong thing. You came into this Deen to hope for the meeting with Allah. So I'm making it clear for you. وَمَن جَاهَدَ فَإِنَّمَا يُجَاهِدُ لِنَفْسِهِ And whoever is struggling is only doing so
for his own benefit. إِنَّ اللَّهَ لَغَنِيٌّ عَنِ الْعَالَمِينَ Allah doesn't need your sacrifices. He's free of need of all nations and all peoples. The Sahaba, as incredible as their sacrifices are, Allah doesn't say: Don't you let the thought come in your mind that you're somehow contributing to Islam. I don't need you. You can go back if you want. All the struggle you're doing is your own self. You're not benefiting me. You're benefiting yourself. What a reality check like. We're not doing this for Allah. What does that even mean? We're doing it for ourselves. And don't you forget it. You're not doing anybody a favor. وَالَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ And those who-- then then after the harsh reality check. Tough love. Then there's soft love. And those who do--Those who believe and act righteously, do good deeds. لَنُكَفِّرَنَّ عَنْهُمْ سَيِّئَاتِهِمْ We will absolutely bury away from them all of their sins. وَلَنَجْزِيَنَّهُمْ أَحْسَنَ الَّذِي كَانُوا يَعْمَلُونَ And We will compensate them with the best of what they used to do. وَوَصَّيْنَا الإِنسَانَ بِوَالِدَيْهِ حُسْنًا Then there's physical torture, there's psychological torture. Some of the companions were being not physically beat, but their mother was saying: If you don't, if you don't leave Islam, I'll stop eating. If you don't leave Islam, I'll kill myself etcetera, etcetera. What kind of son are you? What son or what daughter can hear that from their parents? We counseled the human being to be good,
especially to both his parents. وَإِن جَاهَدَاكَ لِتُشْرِكَ بِي مَا لَيْسَ لَكَ بِهِ عِلْمٌ And if they're struggling against you, they're they're they're resisting against
you to make you commit Shirk. Over what you know there's no
knowledge for. You have no knowledge of it. فَلا تُطِعْهُمَا
Then don't obey them. Don't obey either of them. إِلَيَّ مَرْجِعُكُمْ You're you're going to all be returned to me; parents and yourself. فَأُنَبِّئُكُم بِمَا كُنتُمْ تَعْمَلُونَ And I will inform you in detail what you used to do. وَالَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ By the way, if the parents are not obeyed, what's going to happen to those people? They're gonna get disowned. And so, as soon as they get disowned Allah says: وَالَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ لَنُدْخِلَنَّهُمْ فِي الصَّالِحِينَ Those who believe and do good deeds. We will We will give them the new company. We will make-- enter them the company of the righteous. You lost one family. I'll give you a new one. You see how it's connected. وَمِنَ النَّاسِ مَن يَقُولُ آمَنَّا بِاللَّ And among people there are those who started off saying they believe in Allah فَإِذَا أُوذِيَ فِي اللَّ
and the moment that torture began in their path to Allah جَعَلَ فِتْنَةَ النَّاسِ كَعَذَابِ اللَّهِ
the fact that people were giving them a hard time, they assume that to mean that Allah is punishing them. You know, when I wasn't following Islam, things were good. As soon as I started following Islam, life became miserable. It's like Allah doesn't want me to do this. It's like Allah is punishing me for becoming more Islamic. Allah is--this is literally mirroring some people's life situations you know that like. جَعَلَ فِتْنَةَ النَّاسِ كَعَذَابِ اللَّهِ when people give them a hard time, they say: This is Allah punishing me. And when I stopped praying, when I went back to drinking and whatever else things got better. Problems disappeared. It's every time I start, you know, coming closer to God then all hell breaks loose. Something's wrong with it. وَلَئِن جَاءَ نَصْرٌ مِّن رَّبِّكَ And by the way, the same people when aid comes from your Rabb, when relief does come they said: لَيَقُولُنَّ إِنَّا كُنَّا مَعَكُمْ No, no, no. We were always with you. I've
always had really strong faith, you know? I am a really spiritual person. Except when times are hard then I'm not, but. Other than that I'm really spiritual. أَوَلَيْسَ اللَّهُ بِأَعْلَمَ بِمَا فِي صُدُورِ الْعَالَمِينَ Does Allah not
know-doesn't He know better? What truly lies in
the chests of all peoples? وَلَيَعْلَمَنَّ اللَّهُ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَلَيَعْلَمَنَّ الْمُنَافِقِينَ Allah will expose those who truly believe and Allah will expose hypocrites. That's a form of hypocrisy. 
وَقَالَ الَّذِينَ Then the next form of pressure and torture. There was physical torture. There's family torture. Now
there's social peer pressure. وَقَالَ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا لِلَّذِينَ آمَنُوا اتَّبِعُوا سَبِيلَنَا Disbelievers said to believers: Why don't you just follow the way we used to follow; our way? وَلْنَحْمِلْ خَطَايَاكُمْ We will carry your sins. Why are you why are you hurting yourself-- Elders of Quraysh would come. Listen, I'm an elder. I've seen a lot of things. This is not the right religion. If you're so worried that it's the right religion and you're sinning by coming back to your senses. Then let me tell you, I guarantee if God does question I'll say he did it because of me. I'll carry your sins. Okay? Is that okay now? Now come on back. Now stop being silly. So now He says: وَلْنَحْمِلْ خَطَايَاكُمْ وَمَا هُم بِحَامِلِينَ مِنْ خَطَايَاهُم مِّن شَيْءٍ And they're not going to be carrying any of
their mistakes in any way, shape or form. إِنَّهُمْ لَكَاذِبُونَ They're absolutely liars. This is peer pressure from elders who've been respected one's whole life. And now you became Muslim, and all of a sudden you're like: you know how old I am, right? You know how wise I am? You know, I've given you advice in your life, and you're not gonna listen to this? You don't get it right now. You're under a lot of pressure. I understand that you were depressed and that's why you fell into this cult called Islam. But come to your senses. If even if it is bad I'll carry your sins. And Allah says they're lying. وَلَيَحْمِلُنَّ أَثْقَالَهُمْ They will carry their own heavy
loads. وَأَثْقَالا مَّعَ أَثْقَالِهِمْ and they'll carry loads along with their own loads. وَلَيُسْأَلُنَّ يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ عَمَّا كَانُوا يَفْتَرُونَ And they're going to be interrogated about what they used to make up. All of this was clearly connected. Now all of a sudden, without warning, a jump to  stories of prophets. وَلَقَدْ أَرْسَلْنَا نُوحًا إِلَى قَوْمِهِ Nuh stayed with his people--We sent him to his people. فَلَبِثَ فِيهِمْ أَلْفَ سَنَةٍ إِلاَّ خَمْسِينَ عَامًا He stayed with them 1000 years saved just 50. فَأَخَذَهُمُ الطُّوفَانُ وَهُمْ ظَالِمُونَ Then a punishment-- the storm got to them and they were-- while they were doing wrong. فَأَنجَيْنَاهُ وَأَصْحَابَ السَّفِينَةِ وَجَعَلْنَاهَا آيَةً لِّلْعَالَمِينَ We rescued him and the people on the ship, on the Ark. And We made them into a miracle for all nations and peoples. [وَإِبْرَاهِيمَ] now another prophet. [وَإِبْرَاهِيمَ] And Ibrahim 'alaihissalam 
إِذْ قَالَ لِقَوْمِهِ اعْبُدُوا اللَّهَ وَاتَّقُوهُ when he said, worship Allah and follow him-- and obey and be mindful of him. ذَلِكُمْ خَيْرٌ لَّكُمْ
إِن كُنتُمْ تَعْلَمُونَ That's better for you if you knew. So first prophet mentioned in transition was what? Nuh. Then? Ibrahim 'alaihissalam. And I'm gonna skip a little bit. And I'll go to just Ibrahim 'alaihissalam gives them a long speech. And at the end of that speech فَمَا كَانَ جَوَابَ قَوْمِهِ
And what was the response of his people? إِلاَّ أَن قَالُوا اقْتُلُوهُ أَوْ حَرِّقُوهُ These people only responded by saying kill him or burn him alive. فَأَنجَاهُ اللَّهُ مِنَ النَّارِ Allah rescue him from the fire. إِنَّ فِي ذَلِكَ لَآيَاتٍ لِّقَوْمٍ يُؤْمِنُونَ And certainly there are miraculous signs for those who truly are seeking to believe. وَقَالَ إِنَّمَا اتَّخَذْتُم مِّن دُونِ اللَّهِ أَوْثَانًا مَّوَدَّةَ بَيْنِكُمْ فِي الْحَيَاةِ الدُّنْيَا This--All these gods you've taken other than Allah this is just you keeping, keeping up with each other. You're like you're not really holding onto the religion. You're just more worried mom is gonna be really upset. So that's why 
مَّوَدَّةَ بَيْنِكُمْ فِي الْحَيَاةِ الدُّنْيَا Just out of love for the other
you hold on to the false religion. Not because you actually believe it. He called them out on it. Somebody ثُمَّ يَوْمَ الْقِيَامَةِ يَكْفُرُ بَعْضُكُم بِبَعْضٍ And when Judgment Day comes, you'll be denying each other. The same people for which you held onto falsehood will be the same people you'll be absolutely rejecting on Judgment Day. وَيَلْعَنُ بَعْضُكُم بَعْضًا
And you'll be cursing each other then. وَمَأْوَاكُمُ النَّارُ وَمَا
لَكُم مِّن نَّاصِرِينَ And then your place will be
fire. You won't have any helpers. فَآمَنَ لَهُ لُوطٌ Another prophet now. Which prophet? وَقَالَ إِنِّي مُهَاجِرٌ إِلَى رَبِّي I'm making migration to my Master. إِنَّهُ هُوَ الْعَزِيزُ الْحَكِيمُ Certainly He is the Mighty, the Wise. So the thing to understand is the first passage had to do with torture intensifying and the trials that the Muslims are going through in Makkah. And all of a sudden Nuh, Ibrahim, Lut. Understand this: Nuh 'alaihissalam escaped the punishment of water. Ibrahim 'alaihissalam escaped the punishment of fire. I am making Hijrah. All three of them migrated away from disbelievers that were putting them through trial. Yes or no? Yeah. The Sahaba are going through intense trials. In Makkah. Why don't you just all go to Medina? Can they? They have to go secretly. Don't they have to go secretly. So Allah 'azzawajal speaks in prophetic story code. Let Me tell Nuh 'alaihissalam stayed among his people 1000 years except for-- 950 years. We've lived here our whole life. Where we gonna go? Allah says Nuh was in his people for 1000 years and We got him out. And We ruined them. It's as though, and by the way Allah describes those people that they will be carrying their burdens. Allah describes them: You think they got away. Meaning punishment is coming to this town. And it's time for believers to what? Leave. Just like Nuh left. And by the way, Ibrahim 'alaihissalam challenges people with the same things you're challenging your people with. And they were ready to burn him alive and to to kill him. And things look like they're getting to that point with you, too. And if I can get Ibrahim--Nuh 'alaihissalam out of water that covered the earth and I can get Ibrahim 'alaihissalam out of fire that should burn. I'm gonna get you out. And if it's not clear what I'm trying to get across to you just listen. Lut 'alaihissalam just said it for you. (اني) what? مُهَاجِرٌ إِلَى رَبِّ
 I'm making migration. These-- this Surah by consensus is right before Hijra. Sahaba are standing there reciting Qur'an. And they're actually reciting the game plan. This is a Makki Surah, right? What do you find at the
end of this Surah? You find: وَلا تُجَادِلُوا أَهْلَ الْكِتَابِ إِلاَّ بِالَّتِي هِيَ أَحْسَنُ إِلاَّ الَّذِينَ ظَلَمُوا مِنْهُمْ
 Don't debate with the people of the book except with the best arguments. Wait a second. We don't debate with the people of the book in Makkah. Where is that going to happen? He's already preparing us. So what seems like an unconnected passage your trials are intense, but actually that just means migration is near. And these people's crimes have reached the point where they are now going to be dealt with the way I dealt with the nation of Nuh, the nation of Lut. They are now going to be under the 'Azaab of Allah if they don't mend their ways. So you need to get out. Very subtle and very powerful ways of getting across these kinds of messages. Things that could not have been said openly because if they said openly they would block the way to migration. You know how secretly the migration had to happen? Right? But actually, by study of Qur'an, you find that even in the Ayat of Allah, it was becoming clearer and clearer to the Sahaba what Allah is getting at. This is, you know, for you
أولو الألباب البيب من الاشارة يفهم The intelligent one can take a hint at what's being said. So that would be my, uh, fourth case study of Iltifaat of Ayat in the Qur'an. The final one will take longer than six minutes. So I will stop here, inshallah, and come back and do that. That's gonna be the opening of Surat al-Ma'idah. And about it, an orientalist said that the eleventh Ayah, it wouldn't-- No one would have even noticed if it wasn't there. That's what he said. Okay, so we're gonna look at that eleventh Ayah Inshallah. That will be our final example of Ayat that are apparently unrelated to each other. And then we'll move on to the next section, Coherence within passages. Okay, but that that particular one and Ma'idah is gonna take some time to explain. Because it's a really beautiful lesson. So, inshallah, we'll take our time doing that. جزاكم الله خيرا
سلام عليكم ورحمة الله وبركاته
