الحمد لله و الصلاة و السلام على رسول الله و على آله و صحبه أجمعين أما بعد السلام عليكم و رحمة الله و بركاته I would like to show you the last example of the case study of progressive arguments inside of a passage. And this is also taken from Sūrat al-Baqara. This is going to start with Āyat al-Kursī (the Verse of the Throne), which is 255, and we're gonna go to 261. Verses 251 -261 (from Sūrat al-Baqara). And, uh, I'll try to translate all of it. Then I'll highlight the progression of one of the several ideas. There's several things going on in this passage. If we did all of them, that would take too long. So I'll only highlight one of the themes that are being progressed as the āyāt (verses) progress. اللَّهُ لاَ إِلَهَ إِلاَّ هُوَ الْحَيُّ الْقَيُّومُ لاَ تَأْخُذُهُ سِنَةٌ وَلاَ نَوْمٌ there is no-one to be worshiped or obeyed in any way, shape, or form but He The Living, the Established, and the Establisher of all-things. لاَ تَأْخُذُهُ سِنَةٌ وَلاَ نَوْمٌ

لَهُ مَا فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَمَا فِي الأَرْضِ Slumber nor drowsiness doesn't get a hold of Him; neither does sleep. He owns exclusively whatever lies in the skies and whatever lies in the earth مَنْ ذَا الَّذِي يَشْفَعُ عِنْدَهُ إِلاَّ بِإِذْنِهِ Who dare intercede or make a case before Him except by His permission? يَعْلَمُ مَا بَيْنَ أَيْدِيهِمْ وَمَا خَلْفَهُمْ He knows what lies ahead of them and what lies behind them. وَلاَ يُحِيطُونَ بِشَيْءٍ مِنْ عِلْمِهِ Any they encompass nothing of His Knowledge. Except for what He Himself has willed. وَسِعَ كُرْسِيُّهُ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالأَرْضَ His Throne (Kursī)  extends over the skies and the earth. وَلاَ يَئُودُهُ حِفْظُهُمَا And guarding both of them does not exhaust Him. وَهُوَ الْعَلِيُّ الْعَظِيمُ And He is the High, the Great. لاَ إِكْرَاهَ فِي الدِّينِ There is absolutely no forcing anyone whatsoever in the matter of religion. قَدْ تَبَيَّنَ الرُّشْدُ مِنْ الغَيِّ The correct or straight way has been made abundantly clear and distinct from the deviated course. فَمَنْ يَكْفُرْ بِالطَّاغُوتِ And then whoever were to disbelieve in the forces of rebellion. وَيُؤْمِنْ بِاللَّهِ And instead believe in Allāh. فَقَدْ اسْتَمْسَكَ بِالْعُرْوَةِ الْوُثْقَى Then such a person has held on for dear life to the strongest kind of anchor. لاَ انفِصَامَ لَهَا In whose chain there is no chink; there is no break in that chain; it cannot snap. وَاللَّهُ سَمِيعٌ عَلِيمٌ And Allāh is All-Hearing, All-Knowing. اللَّهُ وَلِيُّ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا And Allāh is the Protective-Friend of those who believe. يُخْرِجُهُمْ مِنْ الظُّلُمَاتِ إِلَى النُّورِ He pulls them out, or brings them out, of darknesses into Light. وَالَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا أَوْلِيَاؤُهُمْ الطَّاغُوتُ their protective-friends are the rebellious. يُخْرِجُونَهُمْ مِنْ النُّورِ إِلَى الظُّلُمَاتِ They bring them out of Light into darknesses. أُوْلَئِكَ أَصْحَابُ النَّارِ هُمْ فِيهَا خَالِدُونَ Those are the people of fire in which they shall remain. أَلَمْ تَرَ إِلَى الَّذِي حَاجَّ إِبْرَاهِيمَ فِي رَبِّهِ أَنْ آتَاهُ اللَّهُ الْمُلْكَ إ Didn't you look at the one that that debated viciously against Ibrahīm (عليه السلام) in the matter of his Master. On account of the fact that Allāh had given him kingdom. إِذْ قَالَ إِبْرَاهِيمُ When Ibrahīm (عليه السلام) said: رَبِّي الَّذِي يُحْيِي وَيُمِيتُ My Master is the one who gives life and gives death. قَالَ أَنَا أُحْيِي وَأُمِيتُ I'm the one who gives life, and I'm the one who gives death. قَالَ إِبْرَاهِيمُ فَإِنَّ اللَّهَ يَأْتِي بِالشَّمْسِ مِنْ الْمَشْرِقِ فَأْتِ بِهَا مِنْ الْمَغْرِبِ ف Allāh is certainly the one who brings the sun out from the east. Go ahead, then, and bring it forth from the west. فَبُهِتَ الَّذِي كَفَرَ Thus, the one who disbelieved was stumped. وَاللَّهُ لاَ يَهْدِي الْقَوْمَ الظَّالِمِينَ And Allāh certainly does not guide the wrongdoing nation. أَوْ كَالَّذِي مَرَّ عَلَى قَرْيَةٍ Or like the one who passed by a town. قَرْيَةٍ وَهِيَ خَاوِيَةٌ عَلَى عُرُوشِهَا And it was turned over on its rooftops. It was completely dilapidated, destroyed for a long time. قَالَ أَنَّى يُحْيِي هَذِهِ اللَّهُ بَعْدَ مَوْتِهَا He said, how can Allāh bring this back to lifr after it had died? فَأَمَاتَهُ اللَّهُ مِائَةَ عَامٍ ثُمَّ بَعَثَهُ Then Allāh gave him death for 100 years and  then raised him back to life. قَالَ كَمْ لَبِثْتَ قَالَ لَبِثْتُ يَوْمًا أَوْ بَعْضَ يَوْمٍ how long did you remain? He said I remained a day, maybe part of the day. قَالَ بَلْ لَبِثْتَ مِائَةَ عَامٍ instead you remained for a 100 years. فَانظُرْ إِلَى طَعَامِكَ وَشَرَابِكَ لَمْ يَتَسَنَّهْ Take a good look at your at your meal and your drink: they haven't aged. It hasn't aged. وَانظُرْ إِلَى حِمَارِكَ And now take a look at your mule. وَلِنَجْعَلَكَ آيَةً لِلنَّاسِ

And I've done so to make you into a miracle for people.

وَانظُرْ إِلَى الْعِظَامِ كَيْفَ نُنشِزُهَا how we are now going to raise them, spring them up. ثُمَّ نَكْسُوهَا لَحْمًا Then we're going to dress them with flesh. Kalamata between Allahu. فَلَمَّا تَبَيَّنَ لَهُ When then, when all of that became abundantly clear to him, لَهُ قَالَ أَعْلَمُ أَنَّ اللَّهَ عَلَى كُلِّ شَيْءٍ قَدِيرٌ I know for a fact that Allāh is in complete control over all things. وَإِذْ قَالَ إِبْرَاهِيمُ رَبِّ أَرِنِي كَيْفَ تُحْيِ الْمَوْتَى how do you bring the dead back to life, Master. قَالَ أَوَلَمْ تُؤْمِنْ Allāh said, don't you already believe? قَالَ بَلَى of course! وَلَكِنْ لِيَطْمَئِنَّ قَلْبِي No, but just to put my heart at ease, to put my heart at tranquility. قَالَ فَخُذْ أَرْبَعَةً مِنْ الطَّيْرِ take four birds, four kinds of birds. فَصُرْهُنَّ إِلَيْكَ Then incline them towards you, train them to come back to you. ثُمَّ اجْعَلْ عَلَى كُلِّ جَبَلٍ مِنْهُنَّ جُزْءًا Then place a portion of each on on the top of multiple mountains. ثُمَّ ادْعُهُنَّ Then call on them. يَأْتِينَكَ سَعْيًا They will come back to you running. [I'm deliberately not explaining, by the way.] Because I've done a lot of work on Sūrat al-Baqara: shame on you! وَاعْلَمْ أَنَّ اللَّهَ عَزِيزٌ حَكِيمٌ And know that Allāh is Mighty; Allāh is the Ultimate-Authority; and that Allāh is Wise. مَثَلُ الَّذِينَ يُنفِقُونَ أَمْوَالَهُمْ فِي سَبِيلِ اللَّهِ The example of those who spend their money in Allāh's path كَمَثَلِ حَبَّةٍ أَنْبَتَتْ سَبْعَ سَنَابِلَ It's the example of a single seed that sprouts seven years of green. فِي كُلِّ سُنْبُلَةٍ In every one of those ears مِائَةُ حَبَّةٍ Is there a 100 more seeds. Well, وَاللَّهُ يُضَاعِفُ لِمَنْ يَشَاءُ And, above and beyond that, it is Allāh in fact who multiplies for whoever he wants. وَاللَّهُ وَاسِعٌ عَلِيمٌ And Allāh is Vast, Knowledgeable. OK, now: This passage we talked about a lot of things And your mind must have gone to tons of stories Of Ibrāhīm (عليه السلام) and then someone else and then Ibrāhīm (عليه السلام ) again And Āyat al-Kursī! How's all of it  connected? I'm just going to highlight one theme that is being developed in the set of these āyāt. There are multiple, but I'm only highlighting one. We began with Āyat al-Kursī. اللَّهُ لاَ إِلَهَ إِلاَّ هُوَ الْحَيُّ الْقَيُّومُ no-one is to be worshiped, obeyed, loved, adorned, in any way shape or form No one has to be worshiped, obeyed, loved, adored in any way, shape or form. the Living. الْحَيُّ Now, Which means life and death is in whose hands? Allāh's hands because he is the source of all life. He is al-Ḥayy. Now, When someone believes in Allāh he is holding on to an anchor. Where's an anchor found? Yeah, Ship at sea. Why would you be holding on to an anchor? Okay. Are you on the ship or off the ship if you're holding onto an anchor? You're off the ship and you're drowning and you're about to die. And the only thing keeping you alive is you holding on to an anchor. Allah is the source of all life. And if you were to believe in Allah, you're holding onto the anchor that will keep you alive. Are you with me so far? So Allāh is saving your life by giving you faith Because He is the Living and he's giving you that life. Now, if you were to let go of the anchor, what's gonna happen to you? You're gonna drown into the depths of the sea. The deeper you get, at the bottom of the sea In the Sūra of Light of all places. يَدَهُ لَمْ يَكَدْ يَرَاهَا When he takes his hand out it is so dark he almost can't even see his own hands. The deeper you drown, the darker it gets. Yes or no? Okay. Allāh is the Protective-Friend A Friend of those who believe. He takes them out of darknesses into light. Do you see where this is going? If you were to drown, you would be in darknesses. And as you drown deeper does it get darker and darker? So it's darknesses. But if you're above the water and you're holding onto the anchor you're still in the light. And the Ṭāghūt wants to take you out of the light Let go, and it wants you to drown in the darknesses. You with me? Okay. Do you see how the theme of life is progressing? Now, look at this. The next āyah says: Ibrāhīm (عليه السلام) stands in front of a king and says my Master is one who يُحْيِي وَ يُمِيت My Master is the one who gives life and gives death and gives death اللَّهُ لاَ إِلَهَ إِلاَّ هُوَ الْحَيُّ الْقَيُّومُ You will stand in front of the one who can execute you, and still say Allāh gives life. You will no longer fear for your life from anyone else. When you will internalise Āyat al-Kursī You will internalise it the way Ibrāhīm internalised it. رَبِّي الَّذِي يُحْيِي وَيُمِيتُ In the face of Nimrūṭ. أَنَا أُحْيِي وَأُمِيتُ I'm going to execute this prisoner. And this one I will let go And I can do that to you أُحْيِي وَأُمِيتُ Allāh bring the sun from the East; why don't you bring it from the West? In other words, you're asking to be killed. And guess what happens next? He's going to be burned. He's gonna be thrown into a fire. أَوْ كَالَّذِي مَرَّ عَلَى قَرْيَةٍ And by the way, when you internalise that Allāh is the source of all life That's not the only lesson you will learn. You won't just become brave in the face of the most tyrannical And speak the truth because Allāh controls and Allāh protects your life; nobody else. You're holding on to an anchor that will never break. That's not the only lesson you will learn. You will learn hope from life also because life is nothing without hope. Why? Because you should take the other example Of someone who passed by a town and it was completely destroyed for centuries. And he looked at it and said, أَنَّى يُحْيِي هَذِهِ اللَّهُ بَعْدَ مَوْتِهَا How will Allāh bring this to life after it had died? This has been dead for so long it will never come back to life. The ummah is so corrupted ow can they ever come back to being good again!? We're so far gone. Do you know the kinds of things Muslims do nowadays? We're so far beyond it that there is no way this can ever come back. You are like the one who looked at this destroyed town and said how can this city every live again. It's just broken homes and collapsed roofs. That's all it is. How can Allah bring this back to life? اللَّهُ لاَ إِلَهَ إِلاَّ هُوَ الْحَيُّ الْقَيُّومُ And so Allāh gives him death for 100 years, brings him back to life. And he says, I know Allāh is capable over all things. That's another lesson you'll learn from al-Ḥayy al-Qayyūm. Um, You'll have hope that Allāh can revive and restore anything because Allāh gives life: you don't. And then that's not the only lesson you should learn from Allāh being al-Ḥayy. Because, you know, Allāh being al-Ḥayy should teach you multiple lessons! Each of the āyāt is going to teach you a separate lesson about Āllāh being al-Ḥayy. And so he says: وَإِذْ قَالَ إِبْرَاهِيمُ رَبِّ أَرِنِي كَيْفَ تُحْيِ الْمَوْتَى Master, how do you bring the dead back to life? Who asked that question before? When you understand Allāh being al-Ḥayy, you will know that this is not the only life that there is. You will internalise that you will be brought back to life again by the Living. Your life is just as safe after your death And your revival after your death is just as secure as Allāh is al-Ḥayy. It's a guarantee. And so, by the end of it: أَنَّ اللَّهَ عَزِيزٌ حَكِيمٌ Allāh is the Ultimate-Authority; Allāh is the Wise. By the way, the birds that you've trained that come flying: You go [whistling] and the birds come flying back to you It's like Allāh teaching us that one day He will call and we will come flying back. Because we were actually souls that flew away by the command Allāh And we fly back to Him, flock back to Him, by His Command. But I included āyat 261 as part of this progressive passage. The life, death, life, death, life, death thing is over. He says, the example of those who spend in the path of Allāh is like a seed which, by the way, is dead. But when it's put in the ground, Allāh gives it what? Life. And it turns into 700 seeds. Allah will take your deeds, your charities, and He will pour a life into them that you cannot, only Allāh can. Allāh can take take your actions that you may not see the effect of because they were just a seed, and a seed is buried which means you don't know what's happening underground. And the seed may come out of the ground way after you're dead. But it has life in it. You no longer have life in you. You're in the grave. But the seed you planted, the good you did, has a life of its own. And it will produce 100 seeds. Each one of those 100 seeds will have a life that Allāh will give them of their own, And Allāh is Vast, Knowledgeable in the way he gives life to these seeds. Life-- what started with Āyat al-Kursī continuously progressing through a number of āyāt until we get to infāq (spending), subḥānallāh. Okay, so this idea of progressing notions, progressive ideas inside passages is is a very powerful one. It is one of the dimensions of the logic of the Qur'ān. How the Qur'ān wants to us to build conceptual frameworks of different things. Spiritual realities, you know, faith realities, historical realities. You know, how how he wants us to build ideas atop one another. This, you know, one of the things that I'm a big advocate of, And that Allāh Himself says, Allāh doesn't advocate knowing the Qurān. Allāh advocates thinking. There's no much, أَفَلَا تَعْلَمُوْن What do you find? أَفَلاَ تَعْقِلُونَ Why don't you think? Why don't you think? Why don't you think? Ponder, reflect, think. Contemplate. These are the words that keep occurring in the Qur'ān. Knowing? Yeah, okay, the basics. The one who knows a lot; the one that doesn't know a lot. Knowledge is there. But actually, it is what you do with that knowledge. And the only thing you're supposed to do with that, The first you're supposed to do with that knowledge is think about it. There are so many who can acquire the knowledge, repeat the knowledge, like a parrot, teach it to others, also, but never actually sit and what? Think about what it's saying. To accept, like Imām Ḥamīd al-Dīn al-Farāḥī was saying You've accepted that others thought about it, that's good enough for me. Mhm. You were commended to think. You were commended to ponder. And when that happens, then the Qur'ān, the Word of Allāh. The Revelation comes to life for you. That's when it brings life into the hearts. So this was our first half of the study of coherence within passages. Progressive arguments. This was the last of the progressive arguments that I wanted to share with you. And now we're going to move on to symmetry and ring composition and structures that are inside of passages. It's a little bit more elaborate for me to teach, so I'm going to use the visuals, the laptop to try to teach them. and type them up as I go. So I can I can help you understand it better, Inshāllāh, So we'll take a couple of minutes and set that up and then we'll reconvene.
