الحمد لله والصلاة والسلام على رسول الله وعلى آله وصحبه أجمعين In this session, inshaaAllah, I will explain to you the relationship between the last ten aayaat of-- last 10 surahs of the Quran. Just the order of the last 10 surahs of the Quran. We'll go through it quickly. Just so you appreciate-- just that conclusion to that discussion that the surahs of the Quran are in remarkable order. Okay. So I'll begin with a Surah al-Fil. Anybody know the beginning of Surah al-Fil? بِسۡمِ ٱللَّهِ ٱلرَّحۡمَـٰنِ ٱلرَّحِیمِ أَلَمۡ تَرَ كَیۡفَ فَعَلَ رَبُّكَ بِأَصۡحَـٰبِ ٱلۡفِیلِ What is the surah about? It is about Ka'aba, the Makkah-- the city of Makkah being attacked by an army of elephants and it being protected. Allah (عز وجل) protected that city under any circumstance. Even if it was facing an impossible enemy, impossible to fight against, an army of elephants, it's-- Allah still protected that city. The very next surah is Surah Quraysh. How does it begin? لِإِیلَـٰفِ قُرَیۡشٍ Allah (عز وجل) talks about how He took care of the economic prosperity of the city of Makkah. رِحۡلَةَ ٱلشِّتَاۤءِ وَٱلصَّیۡفِ They could travel in the winter and in the summer freely. Now I want to take you back to a du'a. A du'a of Ibrahim (عليه السلام). Ibrahim (عليه السلام)-- remember he made the du'a, "Make this a peaceful city." You remember that? Okay, I told you he said, "Make this a peaceful city and provide its children from all kinds of fruit." And yesterday I told you that the "peaceful city" part is about its protection and law and order and security. And then the "fruit" part is about what? Economic prosperity. Actually, Surah al-Fil and Surah Quraysh together are the fulfillment of the du'a of Ibrahim (عليه السلام). In Surah al-Fil, even if an army of elephants attacks, the city is still safe. Allah will protect that city, fulfilling the du'a of Ibrahim when he said, "Ya Allah, make the city safe." Then he said, "Provide them all kinds of fruit." And Allah says, in the next surah, that the Quraysh get to go and travel in the summer and in the winter. Now, this is important people because the Quraysh were the center of Arabian society. And the Arabs were really, really big on robbing each other to death. Except they left the Quryash alone. The Quraysh would only-- they could travel whenever they want. So actually,
what the other people used to do is they only used to travel during the very difficult hot seasons. Or very intense cold seasons. They could only travel in those seasons. Why? Because then they know that the robbers, it's too hard for them to wait for us in the desert. So we can only travel during the tough times. So we'll go towards the hot climate in the summer and we'll go towards the cold climate in the winter. Even though for convenience, what should you do? You go towards the cold climate in the summer and you go towards the hot climate in the winter. But everybody else couldn't do that. But the Quraysh could go wherever they want. Free ride. No problem. Nobody will rob them. Why not? Because every other tribe used to have idols. And where are the idols stored? In Makkah. If you mess with them, they'll say, "You took our money. Now, watch what happens when I go back to Makkah." I'm gonna take that idol of yours and..." [cracking sound] "You see that giant monkey? You watch who's tail is missing when you get there?" You understand? So they were afraid of messing with Makkah because the Makkans would then destroy their? Idols. So they left them alone. Also, after the entire story of you know, the army of elephants being destroyed. The Mushrikoon used to believe that the people of Quraysh are untouchable. They are crazy powerful. You don't mess with them because even elephants can't mess with them. So we'll leave them alone. So Allah says, رِحْلَةَ الشِّتَاءِ وَالصَّيْفِ What's incredible, though, is Allah says, I made those conveniences for you. You can travel wherever you want, whenever you want, unlike anybody else. By the way when they do travel, out of season, what did they bring back? All kinds of fruits. They bring back out of season fruits. Nobody else has those fruits. They do. What was the du'a Ibrahim? Provide these
people all kinds of fruit. وَٱرۡزُقۡ أَهۡلَهُۥ مِنَ ٱلثَّمَرَ ٰ⁠تِ Provide them all kinds of fruits. I'm providing you everything that Ibrahim asked for. You should at least be true to the legacy of your father. He built that house. Not so you could do shirk. Not so you could worship false gods. He built that house so you can worship Him. فَلۡیَعۡبُدُوا۟ رَبَّ هَـٰذَا ٱلۡبَیۡتِ The reason that house is mentioned - or this house - the Kaaba is mentioned in that Sura is because the house was built by who? Ibrahim. And their prosperity is directly a result of the prayer of Ibrahim. So everything's actually going back to Ibrahim (عليه السلام). Do you guys understand the relationship between Surah al-Fil and Surah al-Quraysh? One after the other. Now that those two surahs have been mentioned together, Allah (عز وجل) then mentions in the next Surah, Al-Ma'un: You people are supposed to fulfill the legacy of Ibrahim. And instead of fulfilling the legacy of Ibrahim-- by the way what is the legacy of Ibrahim? You worship Allah sincerely.

Right? And as a result of worshiping Allah sincerely, you serve people. You do good to people. Ibrahim (عليه السلام) is very generous. Even when strangers come to his house. What did he do? He takes the best meat that he has. There's a baby cow in the back. No more. [cutting sound] And he gets slaughtered and he feeds them. You know, he's a giving person. This is generally-- he cares about other people. Angels come and say, "We're going to destroy the nation of Lut." What does he say? "Hey, wait, don't do that." "Take care of those people." He's making du'a for humanity he's making du'a for other people, caring about them. So he's got two
qualities, Ibrahim (عليه السلام). He's really close to Allah. He worships Allah sincerely, and he cares about people. He really cares about people, right? The irony is, you people are supposed to be living up to the legacy of Ibrahim (عليه السلام), yet, let's see how you measure up. Let's see what you - meaning the Quraysh - look like. Well, أَرَءَیۡتَ ٱلَّذِی یُكَذِّبُ بِٱلدِّینِ. فَذَ ٰ⁠لِكَ ٱلَّذِی یَدُعُّ ٱلۡیَتِیمَ.  وَلَا یَحُضُّ عَلَىٰ طَعَامِ ٱلۡمِسۡكِینِ Have you seen the one who lies against the deen altogether? He doesn't encourage the feeding of the poor. He pushes the orphan around, you know? فَوَیۡلࣱ لِّلۡمُصَلِّینَ Then the worst kind of destruction should fall upon people who pray and pray only to show off. And when they pray, they're lazy and lackadaisical. They don't even care what they're praying, how they're praying. They're standing in salah, like, you know. What kind of people are these? وَیَمۡنَعُونَ ٱلۡمَاعُونَ And they're so cheap. And they're so miserly they won't even give people [مَاعُون]. Do you know what [مَاعُون] is? [مَاعُون] is little things. Somebody knocks on your door. You live in an apartment, somebody knocks on your door and says, "Hey, do you have salt?" "We don't know what that is." [laughs] It's [مَاعُون], it's not gonna kill you to give them a spoon of salt. [scoffs] "Take my salt!" [laughs] So Allah is saying, then, in this surah, the criticism is you people don't pray sincerely and you're so cheap. Isn't that the exact opposite of what Ibrahim (عليه السلام) represents? I gave you what Ibrahim asked for. And you're not true to your father's legacy. In Surah al-Ma'un. Then let's see what happens next. Well, if you're not true to the
legacy that Ibrahim (عليه السلام) was supposed to-- well you were supposed to fulfill that legacy. Maybe there's someone else who does. The next surah is, إِنَّاۤ أَعۡطَیۡنَـٰكَ ٱلۡكَوۡثَرَ Rasul (صلى الله عليه وسلم). There-- It's proven that the Quraysh are unqualified, unworthy of living up to the name of Ibrahim. Surah al-Kawthar is proof that Rasoolullah (صلى الله عليه وسلم) is worthy of the legacy of Ibrahim. We've given you Kawthar. What should you do? What were the two things  Rasul (صلى الله عليه وسلم) was told to do in Surah al-Kawthar? فَصَلِّ لِرَبِّكَ وَٱنۡحَرۡ Pray and sacrifice. Oh, pray and sacrifice. Wait a second. Whose legacy is that? Ibrahim (عليه السلام). You fulfill the legacy. And then He says, إِنَّ شَانِئَكَ هُوَ ٱلۡأَبۡتَرُ Your enemy will be discontinued. Oh my God! Allah already started calling who an enemy? Somebody's his enemy. Somebody's the Prophet's enemy. And I know tafseer will tell us who the enemy is, but in the text itself, it's a little ambiguous. "Your enemy will be discontinued." So who is that enemy? Well, Allah just now mentioned that those people are unqualified. But the Prophet is
qualified. So they say, "Wait, wait, wait. even if the Prophet is qualified, he's still Quraysh." "He's still one of us." "We're all the same. We're all the same family." Actually, you're no longer the same family. Don't tell them, [قُل يَا قَومِي], [قُل يَا قَبِيلَتِي], [قُل يَا قُرَيش] What is the next Surah? قُلۡ یَـٰۤأَیُّهَا ٱلۡكَـٰفِرُونَ I'm gonna say that I have nothing to do with you people anymore. Yes, we were both the same blood. We're Banu
Hashim. We're from the Quraysh. We have lived here. My ancestry is here. But because of this [لَا إِِلَهَ إِلَّ الله] And because you have abandoned the legacy of our father Ibrahim, and I'm trying to hold on to the legacy of our father Ibrahim, we are now two separate ways. You are Kaafiroon. You are not my people anymore. I will not call you my people. I will call you al-Kaafiroon, and I don't worship what you worship. And you don't worship what I worship. And you go your way, I go my way. لَكُمۡ دِینُكُمۡ وَلِیَ دِینِ When you say that-- By the way, in the tribal world. In tribal society. When you tell your tribe I have nothing to do with you. "You go your way. I go my way." You know what that's considered? It's considered treason. And once you declare that I have nothing to do with my tribe, that tribe becomes your enemy. In other words, قُلۡ یَـٰۤأَیُّهَا ٱلۡكَـٰفِرُونَ is a declaration of war. We have to understand, قُلۡ یَـٰۤأَیُّهَا ٱلۡكَـٰفِرُونَ is a declaration of
war. Now, if there is a declaration of war, that
means from here on out there is a conflict. The physical conflict between the Prophet (صلى الله عليه وسلم) and who? And the Quraysh. His own people, who no longer get called his own people anymore. If there is a conflict, then you have to-- At the end of the day, in a conflict, somebody will win. Someone will win and someone will lose. So what does Allah do in the next surah? He let us know who's gonna win and who's gonna lose. إِذَا جَاۤءَ نَصۡرُ ٱللَّهِ وَٱلۡفَتۡحُ وَرَأَیۡتَ ٱلنَّاسَ یَدۡخُلُونَ فِی دِینِ ٱللَّهِ أَفۡوَاجࣰا SubhaanAllah. The war has been declared in al-Kafirun. The victor has been declared in إِذَا جَاۤءَ نَصۡرُ ٱللَّهِ وَٱلۡفَتۡحُ But the promise of victory does not mean that the victory happens right away. I'll give it to you in a visual way. You see the clouds, but it hasn't rained yet. But before you know, even before you know it's going to rain, you can tell that it's going to rain because you're seeing the clouds, and you can feel in the wind. You can sense that rain is coming, right? Now the Prophet has declared-- He's been told that victory is coming. People are going to enter Islam in lots of numbers. And he was told this very early, and even though he was told this very early, it didn't look like Islam is gonna win very early. There were no indications that Islam will win actually because there were so few Sahaba and the Quraysh were so powerful. Even elephants couldn't take them down. It didn't look like the Muslims are going to see people entering into Islam [أَفوَاجًا] multitudes, upon multitudes, upon multitudes. Hard to imagine. When you make a big promise of victory. When you make big promises. Then it's important
to at least get some signs. Some hope. This is an important concept. So before I go to the next Surah, I want you to understand the concept. Zakariya (عليه السلام) is told that he's going to have a son. Pretty big deal. It's a big deal. So he says, "Ya Allah, I
believe you, but can I have some sign?" He says, "You won't speak to people for
three days." He gives him a sign. Similarly, you have in the Quran, in this case, Allah (عز وجل) told Rasul (صلى الله عليه وسلم), you will take over all-- The deen of Allah will be victorious. But unlike Zakariya, who went to Allah, and asked for a sign, Allah does not wait for the Prophet to ask for a sign. Listen. I know you don't think victory is easy. Let me show you. Okay, you tell me who your worst enemy is. Okay, my worst enemy is Abu
Lahab. Okay, let Me make an example out of Abu Lahab for you. So you'll know that victory is coming. What's the next surah? تَبَّتۡ یَدَاۤ أَبِی لَهَبࣲ وَتَبَّ It's not the destruction of all the enemies of Islam, but the worst enemy of Islam is made an example out of, and he's destroyed. Called out. Just so we know-- Just so the Prophet knows and the believers know that the promise of Allah that victory is coming is going to happen because Abu
Lahab was one of the most powerful people in Makkah. And also one of the worst enemies of Islam, if not the worst enemy of Islam. Arguably, the worst enemy of Islam. And Allah took care of him. Now, Let's look at this sequence again. The first two surahs were about the du'a of Ibrahim. The next two surahs was who's qualified to fulfill the legacy and who's not qualified to fulfill the legacy. The next surah is the one who is qualified declares against-- war against the one who is not qualified. Once the war is declared, the victor is declared in the next surah. Once the victor is declared, here's a small token that victory is on its way. Abu Lahab, I'll take care of him for you. Which means now their path to victory is clear. There are no obstacles left in our path to victory. When you go for a war for a long time-- And we we know that really well in the United States. When you engage in war for a long time, is it possible you forget what you are fighting in the first place? [laughs] You forget what you're fighting in the first place. What was the struggle for? This is a real problem, by the way. This is a very real problem. There are people who are struggling to establish Islamic work, build a school, do dawah work, build their organization. They've been at it for years. But you know what? When you're at it for a long time, you sometimes forget why you were starting to begin with. There are students who want to-- when they first started studying Islam they said, "I just want to get close to Allah. I just want to pray. And I want to understand what Allah is saying in every salah. That's all I want." And they've been studying Islam for 10 years now, but they don't pay attention in salah anymore. That happens. You lose sight of why you started. You forget. When you started, it was very clear. Over time, the intention and
the motivation and the original inspiration that got you started becomes rusty. What does Allah do in this sequencing? Well I have cleared the path of victory for you. But as the path of victory becomes clear, and you will be able to establish Allah's deen, I need you to remember what this struggle was about to begin with. This struggle was about the legacy of which man? Ibrahim (عليه السلام) and the legacy of
Ibrahim (عليه السلام) in one word, is Tawheed. It is the Oneness of Allah. He is the father of monotheism. One God. The father of all monotheistic faiths, they call him. If that's the case, then we should be reminded of the constitution
of this faith after victory. What is the constitution of this faith? قُلۡ هُوَ ٱللَّهُ أَحَدٌ. ٱللَّهُ ٱلصَّمَدُ. لَمۡ یَلِدۡ وَلَمۡ یُولَدۡ. وَلَمۡ یَكُن لَّهُۥ كُفُوًا أَحَدُۢ That's what this deen is all about, at the end of the day. Just the oneness of God. Oneness of Allah. That's all it's about. You know? He has no son, He didn't give birth and He's not given birth. Now that that's established, Tawheed is
established, is another important question. Did every prophet preach the same message of one God? Sure. Is it true that every prophet, after a generation or two of him being gone, things started going bad again? And after a few generations, that same nation who was worshiping One God ended up falling into the clutches of shirk again. Did it happen over and over again in history? Sure. Now you have gained victory and you have established the oneness of God. Is it possible that over time you will also fall trap to the, you know, to the attempts - the attacks - of Shaytaan. Is it possible? Is it possible you will lose your Tawhid? Is it possible? Sure. And that oneness of Iman, the oneness of God, the Tawheed of Allah, the iman in Allah, the [لَا إِلَهَ إِلَّ الله] that lives inside the people's hearts. It has to be protected. But to protect it, you have to protect it from the attacks that come from the outside and the
attacks that come from the inside. The attacks that come from the outside should be protected against. So Allah sent us the protection from the outside by revealing, قُلۡ أَعُوذُ بِرَبِّ ٱلۡفَلَقِ مِن شَرِّ مَا خَلَقَ وَمِن شَرِّ غَاسِقٍ إِذَا وَقَبَ وَمِن شَرِّ ٱلنَّفَّـٰثَـٰتِ فِی ٱلۡعُقَدِ وَمِن شَرِّ حَاسِدٍ إِذَا حَسَدَ These are attacks from the outside that can ruin your faith. What kind of attacks are left? The attacks on the inside. Well, what's last surah? قُلۡ أَعُوذُ بِرَبِّ ٱلنَّاسِ مَلِكِ ٱلنَّاسِ إِلَـٰهِ ٱلنَّاسِ مِن شَرِّ ٱلۡوَسۡوَاسِ ٱلۡخَنَّاسِ ٱلَّذِی یُوَسۡوِسُ فِی صُدُورِ ٱلنَّاسِ We ask Allah to protect us from the whispers of those-- of the Shayaateen, the devils, who whisper inside the chests of people. Beautiful language. Allah says they whisper inside the chests of the people, He does not say they whisper inside the hearts of the people. Beautiful language. What's the difference between saying the devils have access to the chests, as opposed to saying the devils have access to the heart? The chest is a place. The heart is a thing. The heart is inside the chest. It is as though they have-- Imagine there's a castle, but there's a wall outside the castle. So there's a perimeter. The shayaateen are given access inside the gate, but they still don't have access to the castle itself. Allah did not give the devils access to our heart's. The only one who can
open the door for them is us. That's why He didn't say, ٱلَّذِی یُوَسۡوِسُ فِی قُلُوبِ ٱلنَّاسِ He said,
ٱلَّذِی یُوَسۡوِسُ فِی صُدُورِ ٱلنَّاسِ مِنَ ٱلۡجِنَّةِ وَٱلنَّاسِ Everything is connected to everything else, and it goes together to make a comprehensive argument. Everything flows together and makes a comprehensive argument. This is the structure of-- or the organization of surahs in the Quran. There are for example-- There are many examples of this. One surah will talk about, you know, um, it's awesome, one surah will talk about people burning in hellfire. And they're saying, "Hey, we're burning. But
where are those guys that we thought were losers?" "We don't see them here." Who are they talking about? The Muslims. We don't see them burning. "We used to think they were pathetic." "How come they're not here with us?" But where are they? In Jannah. The next surah the conversation is reversed. There are a bunch of people in heaven. There are a bunch of people in paradise, and one of them says, "Hey, where's my friend?" "Where'd he go?" "We used to hang out together." And guess what he finds out. That friend of his that is missing is where? In Jahannam. So Allah paints one picture in one surah, then He paints the opposite picture in the next surah. He does this all over the Quran. Things are tied together and connected together. In other words, the organization of the Quran and the sequencing of the Quran, it does not make itself obvious to you when you're reading it. Which is why when you've tried to read the
Quran before in translation from one to the-- One chapter-- See I'm saying chapter because you thought it was a chapter-- One chapter to the next to the next to the next. You weren't able to see the connection. You're not able to see the connection. It takes work to discover this order. And the more work you put in, the more beautiful it gets. The more remarkable it gets. So on that note, I've tried to
talk to you a little bit about the relationship between different parts or different surahs of the Quran. But what I want to talk to you about now is actually what happens inside a surah. What about within a surah itself? This is Section 9. It's on page 22 of your notes. This is the story of Yusuf (عليه السلام). There's lots to talk about here, but I'll make it brief. I feel like I'm running out of time already. I really do. Too many great things to talk to you about. I will have you read this with me out loud. What is A? [crowd responds] Good. I need louder next time. What is B? [crowd responds] C? [crowd responds] Okay, D? [crowd responds] E? [crowd responds] F? [crowd responds] Okay. Okay. Stop now. Good reading. Good job. Okay. Read K for me. [crowd responds] Do you understand what I'm doing here? It's in the order of the surah. Okay. Read K for me again. [crowd responds] Okay. Read A for me again. [crowd responds] Oh, Read B for me. [crowd responds] Read J. [crowd responds] Whoa. Okay, okay, okay. Let's go back. Let's go back. Read, "Minister's wife's attempt to seduce Yusuf." That's C. What am I going to make you read now? Read I. [crowd responds] Whoa. What!? D. [crowd responds] C and D are together. C and D are together and then I is responding to them. But let's go back again. E. [crowd responds] Mmhmm. Yusuf's in prison. H. [crowd responds] Uhh, okay, okay, okay. This one gotta be off-- "The king's dream..." [crowd finishes sentence] Oh, my God. You see how the surah is organised? Every problem discussed in the first half of Surah Yusuf is solved in reverse order in the second half of Surah Yusuf. It's a perfect symmetry. When I was in literature class in college, in the first year of college, we were given a homework assignment to compare the story of Joseph in the Bible to the story of Joseph in the "Koran". At the time, I was not a student of the Arabic language, nor of Islam. As a matter of fact, at the time I wasn't even interested in religion. And I thought it was a good opportunity to read something from the Quran. So in our textbook they had the two excerpts from the two accounts next to one another, and I read them quickly. And at the time I thought, "I don't know. The Bible just has more details, I guess." I didn't know what to write. And my professor also said, "Well, the Koran's version
is pretty much a brief account of the biblical version." "Nothing really much to it there." Well, Professor,
I must say, I didn't have to actually learn Arabic to know that there's an incredible literary symmetry in this surah. From beginning to the end. I didn't have to know, you know, anything else, but just the surah itself, just a little bit about it. And, you know, for me to understand that Allah (عز وجل) revealed this in perfect order. Now imagine,
to do this as an oral tradition with no edits. First time, he's just reciting it and it just comes out like this. Which is why, at the end of it, you know what Allah says? At the end of Surah Yusuf? He says, مَا كَانَ حَدِیثࣰا یُفۡتَرَىٰ It's not speech that's made up. You can't make this stuff up It's literally what Allah says at the end of Surah Yusuf. I've previously spoken to you about the symmetry or the order and the structure inside Surah al-Rahman and its relationship with Surah al-Waqi'ah. As a brief reminder to you, Surah al-Rahman has five sections. Surah al-Waqi'ah has five sections. Surah al-Rahman has five. Surah al-Waqi'ah has five. Surah al-Rahman - the first section is the greatness of the Quran. First section is about the greatness of the Quran. ٱلرَّحۡمَـٰنُ. عَلَّمَ ٱلۡقُرۡءَانَ. خَلَقَ ٱلۡإِنسَـٰنَ. عَلَّمَهُ ٱلۡبَیَانَ Surah al-Waqi'ah - the last section is about the greatness of the Quran. فَلَاۤ أُقۡسِمُ بِمَوَ ٰ⁠قِعِ ٱلنُّجُومِ. وَإِنَّهُۥ لَقَسَمࣱ لَّوۡ تَعۡلَمُونَ عَظِیمٌ So in Surah al-Rahman, it was section one, and in Surah al-Waqi'ah - the next surah - it is section five. In Surah al-Rahman, section two is about the creations of Allah. In Surah al-Waqi'ah, section four is about the creations of Allah. In Surah al-Rahman, section three is about health, Judgment Day, and Hellfire. Section three is about Judgment Day and Hellfire. In Surah al-Waqi'ah section three is about Judgment Day and hellfire. In Surah al-Rahman, section four is about the first level of Jannah. First two levels of jannah or two kinds of jannah that are at the-- economy class Jannah basically. Okay? In Surah al-Waqi'ah, section-- What section should I talk about? Section two. Because we're talking about section four from Rahman. So now here, section two is about the People of the Right Hand. Where do People of the Right Hand go? Enter jannah. The final section of Surah al-Rahman is an elite, elaborate, extra beautiful place in Jannah. Section one of Surah al-Waqiah, Allah describes the people that are called وَٱلسَّـٰبِقُونَ ٱلسَّـٰبِقُونَ، أُو۟لَـٰۤىِٕكَ ٱلۡمُقَرَّبُونَ The first and the foremost. Those are the ones that are brought close to Allah. The first and the foremost. Shouldn't they get the elite place in Jannah? Mhm. Five sections of al-Rahman, then reversed in five sections of al-Waq'iah. Mirroring each other. Just completely mirroring each other. There's remarkable
connectivity. Within a surah of the Quran and between surahs of the Quran. Within the surah and between the surahs. It's an incredible study. And what it does is it completely changes the way you view the Quran as a book. Because for a lot of us, including myself, when I was first introduced to the Quran it actually didn't feel like a book. It actually felt like a set of isolated aayaat. Like, you kind of study one aayah at a time or you learn one lesson at a time, but you don't technically look at it as something connected and something that flows from one thing to the next to the next. By the way, Quran, one of the meetings of [قَرَنَ] is "to flow". Some argue that the origin of Quran is not [قَرَاَ], it's [قَرَنَ], which actually means "to flow", like the entire Quran flows. Make du'a that I am able to finish this
project with the help of my colleagues. Every year I give myself a new project in Quran studies, so this year's project, inshaaAllah, is to write and then eventually present a comprehensive introduction to every surah of the Quran. InshaaAllah Ta'aalaa. The intent is to-- what I've been saying "comprehensive introduction" not just what are the subjects inside the surah and when it was revealed, but how is this surah organized from beginning to end? How does everything connect with everything else? What is the layout of the surah? A kind of a map of the surah, like we did with Surah Yusuf. Kind of like that. Exploring the beauty in the map of every Sura. You know? It's going to be quite an adventure, I think, InshaaAllah Ta'aalaa, just to engage in that study. So pray that Allah gives success in that study, bi-idhnillah. OK. On this note, I do want to highlight at least one-- since we're on the case of Surah Yusuf, I just wanna give one example of things that are talked about in Surah Yusuf. Things are balanced, right? One thing is mentioned here, is balanced on the other side. And so there is actually an interesting balance even within the characters that are mentioned in Surah Yusuf. So I'll just highlight one aspect of that. I'll talk about Yusuf (عليه السلام) himself. And two opposite sides of his personality. On the one side, there is his humility and on the other side of humility there is his confidence. So we'll we'll contrast those two qualities of Yusuf (عليه السلام). His humility versus his confidence. You know, kids, they have funny ways of talking. When kids are really excited or nervous. When kids are nervous they come to you and they say, uh, you know- like my my son will come in from the playground, his pants like his-- over here that has got dirt on them. His hands are dirty. "What happened? What happened Imad?" "Um, um, I was playing. Uh, I was playing, uh, and then I was playing. And then, um, uh, we were on the swings and I was playing." When kids are nervous, what do they do? They repeat themselves. They're not able to finish a sentence. They're not-- They don't have enough confidence to be able to finish the whole thought. You have to, "It's okay. It's okay Imad. You can tell me. You're not in trouble." "I'm not gonna be mad. It's okay." There's a kind of fear and a kind of nervousness. A kind of humility, even. and they're not able to express themselves. You understand? Yusuf (عليه السلام) is a child. He sees a dream. He sees a dream in which 11 stars, and the sun, and the moon are doing sajdah to him. He comes to his dad and he says [إِنِيْ رَاَيْتُ] [يَا أَبَتِي] "Dad, I love you." [إِنِّي رَاَيْتُ] "No doubt about it. I did see it. Really I did." "I did". The fact that he said [إِنِّي] he almost expects that it's so crazy, Dad won't believe me. So he said [إِنِّي رَاَيْتُ]. He said, إِنِّی رَأَیۡتُ أَحَدَ عَشَرَ كَوۡكَبࣰا وَٱلشَّمۡسَ وَٱلۡقَمَرَ "No doubt, Dad. I'm telling you. Really, I did see it, Dad." "I saw 11 stars, the sun, and the moon..." And he stopped. He stops talking. He doesn't continue. It's almost as though he has to be, "It's okay. You can tell me, you can tell me." And he had to start over again and said-- Because you know, when he got to 11 stars and the sun and the moon, what were the sun and the moon doing? What were they doing? They were prostrating. That part is the part that bothered him because he's so humble. And for him to be-- because, you know, prostrating to someone is to consider them great. It's a way of kind of like praising myself. "Things were doing sajdah to me. By the way, Dad, right here." "This is where I sat, even the sun
and the moon, and the 11 stars." You know? But he's so humble that the idea of them doing sajdah to him bothers him so much. He said "I saw 11 stars." He says, "I
saw the sun." He says, "I saw the moon." But when it came to the part about sajdah he couldn't continue. So he had to start over again. And he says, رَأَیۡتُهُمۡ لِی سَـٰجِدِینَ "I saw them." Wait, he already said "I saw" in the beginning, He already said that in the beginning. He had to say it again. رَأَیۡتُهُمۡ لِی سَـٰجِدِینَ And it's interesting that in the language of the aayah he uses the living pronouns, which suggests that he already had interpreted the dream. He doesn't say [رَأَيتُهَا] or [رَأَيتُهُنَّ], He said,
رَأَیۡتُهُمۡ لِی سَـٰجِدِینَ which means he used [اَلعَاقِل]. Right? Which linguistically what that means is he actually, by the way he spoke you could tell he already figured it out. That it was his 11 brothers and his mom and his dad, which is what bothered him even more. And his dad's really smart. He picked up on the fact that this kid is really sharp. He figured out a dream, and he's this young and he can already figure it out. And he's telling me. And the way he told me the
dream, I could tell he already figured it out, too. Which is why his dad was really impressed with him and complimented him with a bunch of compliments in the next aayah. But this-- I wanted to highlight this portion, at least, for a couple of reasons. The first reason is it illustrates
the humility of Yusuf (عليه السلام). It also illustrates-- How many dads in the audience? Fathers? Any fathers? Okay, this is for you and me. I'm a father too. This is for you and me. Your sons and your daughters. Are they so comfortable with you? Are they so at ease with you as a father that they see a dream and the first person they want to tell is you? [snickers]

"Dad, I saw a dream." "Go tell your mother, boy." [laughs]

Actually, most of the time, our kids are talking to us, we're not even listening. Especially if it's our girls talking because they talk a lot. "Dad, you know what happened at school today? I was writing a book, I was reading a book, and then my friend came and said, 'Why are you reading this book?' I said, 'Because it's in my homework I wanted to do homework in the library instead of going home and doing the homework.' But then we started talking. We started playing tic tac toe. She won the first one. I won the second one. I won the third one. She won the fourth one. It was really bad." What are you doing in the meantime? "Mmhm. That's great. Wow, that's wonderful." You're not listening. And the girl knows you're not listening. So she says, "Dad, can I have $5?"
"Mmmhm, Yep." "Can I tell Mama you said give them $5?"
"Mmmhm. Yes." So she goes over to the mother. "Abba said you need to give me $5." Then the mother calls you. "Did you say you?"
"Mmmhm". Because you're not listening to the wife either. [laughs] And that's how your girl makes money. [laughs] The aayah is teaching parents that they have to live up to the legacy of Ya'qoob (عليه السلام), and be attentive listeners to their children. As a matter of fact, Yusuf (عليه السلام) was not raised by a father. He was raised, just in his early childhood by that father. Pretty much the rest of his young years were raised as a servant living in another house without a father figure. He had no father figure. And, you know, a lot of times in modern society they say that young people resort to crime because they have no father figure, single family homes, mothers raising the son, the son goes out and has no father figure. So he gets involved in crimes, gangs, drugs, alcohol, partying, you name it. And then they say, "Well, because he had no dad in the home." There's no dad in the home. And that's why there's actually a judge in Brooklyn in New York who wrote a book on this because he was a juvenile judge. He was a judge for 35 years, and he sent like 18-19 year-olds to jail. And his conclusion at the end of 35 years is when there is no father figure, you will get young people turning to crime. That was his conclusion. And I can almost guarantee you that is not just a conclusion for Brooklyn, New York. I can almost guarantee you that's a conclusion for the entire world. But the problem here is Yusuf (عليه السلام) only received fatherly counsel at a very, very young age. And then the father was no more. He wasn't available. What we're learning, then, is even fatherly counsel at a very young age can be so powerful that it can help you survive teen years. Because a young man without a father and a mother in a house and a lady is saying, "Come on, don't you want to have some fun?" And he backs away. He backs away. The only tarbiya he had was from his dad. That's all. And the fact that he's thrown in prison. And when he talks to prisoners, he says, "By the way, I follow the religion of my dad." He talked about his dad in prison. Where did he learn about
his dad? When he was little. What we're learning in the idea is the value and the power of early education. Especially when it comes from which figure? The father. Anyway, this was a little bit about the humility of Yusuf (عليه السلام). In Islam we celebrate humility. "We're supposed to be humble brother." "Don't praise anyone." "Don't let anybody become arrogant." This is why husbands never praise their wives, right? Right? "We're trying to make them humble. We're doing them a favor." "We're helping them out." They help us out too. They help us a lot, don't they? Like some of you have blood pressure problems. Your wife-- or you have low blood pressure, so your wife helps you by keeping your blood pressure high? [laughs] This is an act of love. You have to understand, it's an act of love. Like your wife will come to you, "What kind of sandwich you want? Chicken or turkey?" You'll say "Chicken."
She says, "We don't have any chicken."

And it'll raise your blood pressure. She's keeping you healthy. This is why she's doing this. But anyway, [laughs] Now let's talk a little-- So on the one hand, there is humility. What's on the opposit end of humility? Arrogance. Does Islam endorse arrogance? Does Islam encourage arrogance? Absolutely not. As a matter of fact, one of the worst things you can have inside of you is arrogance. Even if you have a little bit of it, you can't get into Jannah. But the problem is when so many Muslims in the world confuse arrogance with confidence. Islam is against arrogance. But
Islam is not against confidence. So what's the difference between arrogance and the confidence, you ask. Surah Yusuf can teach us. Yusuf (عليه السلام)-- before we talk about Yusuf (عليه السلام), let's let's actually give you an example. We used to, you know, in the United States, we have some states where there's a big Muslim population. New York has a big Muslim population. Houston has a big Muslim population. The state of California has a large Muslim population. But there are some states in the United States
where there's very small Muslim populations. There are some universities where like four Muslim students. Some universities have 4000 Muslim students. But some have maybe four or three Muslim students. So you go to one of these towns and there's like three Muslim students, and two of them don't even know how to pray. They pray in English. And one of them is a hafiz of Quran. One of them is at least a hafiz. He's not an 'aalim. He's not an 'aalim, but he's memorized the whole Quran. But he's very humble. There's no masjid in the entire town. So then jummah comes, they get together in one of the rooms in college, "We should have jummah prayer." And between the three of them, who should be leading the prayer? The hafiz of the Quran. But the hafiz of the Quran is a very humble guy. They ask him, "Bro, can you lead the prayer?" "No, ya akhi al-kareem." "I am nothing.
I am no one." "I do so much sin. I am not worthy to stand on
the mimbar of Rasoolullah (صلى الله عليه وسلم)." "You don't know how many sins I commit.
I am a filthy human being." And the other guy says, "Well,
I think you're a filthy human being, too." "But, the other guy will
lead the prayer in English." "Can you please lead the prayer, dude?" The problem with this young hafiz who is super humble is that he is confusing what with what? Arrogance with confidence. There are situations where Allah expects you to rise to the occasion and step up and be a man and be a woman. Because nobody else is gonna do it. Just do it. Look, the fact that I am coming here. In Malaysia
to speak to you about the Quran
is embarrassing to me. This is a Muslim country. I shouldn't be coming here to teach. I should be coming here to learn. There are people in the audience that know a hundred times more than I do. I guarantee it. About the book of Allah. I guarantee it. I have no doubt about it. There are people even in the United States, that have so much more knowledge than I do of the book of Allah that compared to me-- compared to them, I am not even a kindergartner. I'm not. So somebody says to me, "When there are so many more knowledgeable people than you, Why you open your mouth?
Why do you speak?" I say, "Because I have confidence in the fact,
not that I know more, but I have confidence in the fact that
people are benefiting from me teaching." Teaching. And I'm hoping that other teachers-- other scholars listen to some of me teaching and say to themselves, "What does this clown know about the Quran? Let me teach it." And then they teach it way better than I teach it and I'll say, "Okay, this is good." Now I'm not needed anymore. I wanna make myself irrelevant. I do. My hopes with my own students are they go way further than I go because the bar has to be raised. But I am confident in what I'm doing now because - and I'll tell you why - because of Surah Yusuf. Yusuf (عليه السلام) is very humble in his childhood. You remember this? He comes out of jail. He interprets a dream. He interprets the king's dream. You remember this? He interprets the king's dream. Now they bring them to court. His innocence is proven. And they find out that there is going to be a major economic crisis for seven years. There's not gonna be any food available. We have to ration the supplies. If you don't manage this economic crisis carefully, people will starve to death. The entire society could crumble. The empire could be destroyed. This is a very serious matter for the entire nation. The right man is needed for the job. Yusuf (عليه السلام) looks around the court of the king and says, "Well, these ministers, yeah, they're all idiots. Why don't you hire me?" قَالَ ٱجۡعَلۡنِی عَلَىٰ خَزَاۤىِٕنِ ٱلۡأَرۡضِ، إِنِّی حَفِیظٌ عَلِیمࣱ Make me responsible over the treasury of the entire country. Make me the national treasurer. Make me the Treasury Secretary. He nominated who? Himself. The king didn't say, "Hey, could you please do this job?" And he said, "No, please, I am just a prisoner." No, no, no. And by the way, what are his qualifications? Has he gone to an elite university to understand economics and finance? Has he done that? No. Where did he spend a lot of his youth? As a servant. Where did he spend the rest of his youth? As a prisoner. And now he's standing in front of a king and saying, "I need to be the Treasury Secretary." Do you understand the confidence of this man when he's speaking? Why? Because he says, "There are two qualifications you people need for this job, and it's not a PhD in economics. What you people need is someone who will take their job seriously, "[حَفِيظ]". And secondly, you'll need someone who will be honest." "And honestly, you don't. You have politicians in the room.

I'm the right guy for the job." He nominated himself. When nobody else is there to take up the task, and you know that Allah has given you a gift that you can use to help other people, then you don't say "No, no. I'm nothing. I'm no one. I'm a mosquito. I'm a cockroach." No, no, no. You do it. You step up to the plate and you do it. Let me then tell you what arrogance is. May Allah protect all of us from arrogance. Starting with myself. What is arrogance? Arrogance is two things. One, when you are impressed with yourself. And two, when you think of yourself as better than others. Those are the two problems of arrogance. None of us should be impressed with ourselves, but that doesn't mean we deny the gifts of Allah gave us. I have no shame in saying I think Allah made me a good teacher. I have no shame in saying it. But I also have no shame in saying that I have lots and lots of flaws. If you want to know a list of them, email my wife, she'll tell you. She's got a lot. She's pretty much written a book on it. And she's got a long list. Okay? My father can tell you my flaws. My mother can tell you my flaws. And if you want to protect yourself from arrogance, let me give you some personal advice. This is not from the Quran and Sunnah. It's personal advice. How do you protect yourself from arrogance? You have to be around people who are not impressed with you. Which means your mother.

[laughs] If you spend time with your mother, you will stay humble. For young men, if you really want to be humble, spend time with your dad. because you will be a loser as long as you live. With your dad. You're a loser. You can finish your PhD and he said, "When I was your age, I had four PhDs." He will never be satisfied with you. You are never good enough. So you want a humility check? Just give your dad a call and talk to him for 15 minutes It will bring you back to earth. Okay? [laughs] So- but the balance, the incredible balance between humility on the one end-- Because, you know, in the people doing sajda to him it is as though he is better than other people. If he accepted that, that would be arrogance. He had a problem with that. But when it came to helping other people and stepping up to the plate and taking responsibility, then you gotta do what you gotta do. You know? People come to me all the time. I had a student this year. It was really interesting. I had a student this year. A young lady from England. "Ustaad, what am I going to do when I go back?" [laughs]

"I want to stay here in Texas because there's nobody there to learn from. There's nothing to do there." I know it's terrible,
but you know what I told her? I told her "Uh there's nothing to do there because you're not there." "There's no activities for women there." I said, "They're not there cos you're here." "Go there." [laughs] You need to do something yourself. We keep waiting for someone to come and help us. You know, this is actually, this is a true story. I used to be like that. I used to complain. "Why do you think we don't have good leaders? Why do you think we don't have any good activities at the masjid. Why do you think there aren't enough youth programs? Why do you think there isn't this? Why do you think there isn't that?" And one of my mentors I still remember. One of my older brothers, you know, in deen, in learning. He grabbed my arm one time. He goes, "Nouman," and he was Pakistani, he had a good Pakistani accent. He goes, "Nouman, if you cannot find the man, you had to be the man."

[laughs] I was like, "Okay, I'll be the man." [laughs] But that's what I tell you guys too. We have to step up. We have to stop hiding behind excuses. You know? It's time we do that. I did want to give you one more example of the structure of surahs. We did talk about Surah Yusuf. Maybe one more example and I'll give you your next break. InshaaAllah. And perhaps the example I will give you-- Uh, which one should I pick? Okay, let's take Surah al-Hijr. It's actually a really interesting example. Uh, here, the structure of a surah can be studied from many angles. But one angle I'd like to talk to you about is the beginning and the end of a surah. Meaning, the way a surah begins it is somehow correlated with the way a surah ends. Those two things go hand in hand with each other, okay? So, in Surah al-Hijr, Allah says الۤرۚ تِلۡكَ ءَایَـٰتُ ٱلۡكِتَـٰبِ وَقُرۡءَانࣲ مُّبِینࣲ Let me translate that for you. Alif, laam, raa. Those are the miraculous signs - the aayaat - of the book and a clear and clarifying Quran. This gives me an opportunity to talk to you about a very important concept in Arabic and the Quran. The Quran is clear. But the Quran is not simple. The Quran is clear, but the Quran is not simple. Some people come up to me and ask me sometimes, "Allah says that the Quran is easy." "The Quran is simple. Then why do you give such elaborate linguistic explanations?" "You're supposed to keep it simple." "If it's so simple. How is it so hard to understand?" And they use the word simple. And I have a problem with the usage of that word because Allah never used that word in the Quran. Allah did use the word clear, though, [مُبِين]. Clear and clarifying. Now what is the difference between clear and simple? When I say two plus two equals four, that is clear, and it is simple. Now, if a PhD in calculus solves a major mathematical problem on the board that takes four pages, it takes up the entire board, and he solves a calculus problem for a student of calculus who is good, his solution is clear. But his solution is still not
simple. Clarity has nothing to do with
simplicity. These are two different things. Clarity is about whether or not your answer makes sense to someone who thinks about it. So for a medical student, his advanced medical terms are very clear to him. Even though the terms themselves are not simple. You understand? Those are two distinct things. The Quran is clear, but it is not simple. Why? Because the Quran solves very complex problems. Humanity has complex problems, and Allah gave sometimes complex solutions to those complex problems. The idea in the Quran is not that those solutions are simple, but the idea certainly is that those solutions are clear. Here's another issue here. Let's add one more bit to this problem. But Allah does say that Allah made the Quran easy. وَلَقَدۡ یَسَّرۡنَا ٱلۡقُرۡءَانَ لِلذِّكۡرِ Didn't He? He said He made the Quran easy. So how come it's not easy? Well, He didn't just say He made it easy. He said He made it easy for remembrance. If you want to remember Allah, if you want to do dhikr of Allah, if you want to gain some advice, if you want to memorize, then the Quran is easy. But if you want to dive into the depths, that's not when He said it's easy. He put the ease of the Quran associated with the remembrance of Allah. So it's easy for you to memorize the Fatihah. It's easy for you to remember the lessons of,
وَٱلۡعَصۡرِ، إِنَّ ٱلۡإِنسَـٰنَ لَفِی خُسۡرٍ It's easy for you when you want to remember and get some advice from the Quran. He facilitated it for that reason. That's,
وَلَقَدۡ یَسَّرۡنَا ٱلۡقُرۡءَانَ لِلذِّكۡرِ Anyway, the beginning of the surah says that these are aayaat of a clear book and a clear Quran. Okay, what is the end say. Well here's something that can destroy the Quran's clarity. ٱلَّذِینَ جَعَلُوا۟ ٱلۡقُرۡءَانَ عِضِینَ The people who took the Quran and tore it to pieces. In other words, an attack against the clarity of the Quran is that you look at some ideas from over here, but you don't look at the rest of the aayahs. If you take a piece of the Quran and not the other pieces of the Quran, and come to a conclusion, then that will remove its clarity. So the subject matter of the Quran's clarity is actually completely covered from beginning to the end. Then Allah says in the beginning of the surah, very interestingly, رُّبَمَا یَوَدُّ ٱلَّذِینَ كَفَرُوا۟ لَوۡ كَانُوا۟ مُسۡلِمِینَ Perhaps the Disbelievers will wish that they were Muslims. When will they wish that they were Muslims? Disbelievers are going to wish that they were Muslims? When will that happen? Judgment Day. Which is why at the end, فَوَرَبِّكَ لَنَسۡـَٔلَنَّهُمۡ أَجۡمَعِینَ I swear to your Master we will interrogate all of them. And by the way, when the interrogation begins on Judgment Day, what will they wish? That they were Muslims. Then He says in the beginning, ذَرۡهُمۡ
Leave them alone, یَأۡكُلُوا۟ وَیَتَمَتَّعُوا۟ وَیُلۡهِهِمُ ٱلۡأَمَلُۖ فَسَوۡفَ یَعۡلَمُونَ Let them eat and enjoy. Let them do whatever they want, and let their false hopes confuse them and delude them, and mislead them. They'll soon find out. What will they find out? عَمَّا كَانُوا۟ یَعۡمَلُونَ They'll find out the things they used to do. We will interrogate them about the things they used to do. Now what are the things they used to do? The aayah tells us in the beginning, they used to eat, and enjoy, and be deluded. That's what they used to do. My favorite correlation, though, is at the end. The Prophet (صلى الله عليه وسلم) used to be made fun of. They used to insult the Prophet (صلى الله عليه وسلم). They used to say, وَقَالُوا۟ یَـٰۤأَیُّهَا ٱلَّذِی نُزِّلَ عَلَیۡهِ ٱلذِّكۡرُ إِنَّكَ لَمَجۡنُونࣱ Hey, you! The one who the reminder comes to. You're crazy. That's how I'm translating the aayah. Hey, you! Hey, you! The one who reminder comes to. The dhikr comes to you, right? Let me tell you, you're insane. You're possessed by a jinn. And at the end of the surah, what does Allah say? Allah says to the Prophet (صلى الله عليه وسلم)-- Now in the beginning the Kuffar were talking to him. At the end, إِنَّا كَفَیۡنَـٰكَ ٱلۡمُسۡتَهۡزِءِینَ وَلَقَدۡ نَعۡلَمُ أَنَّكَ یَضِیقُ صَدۡرُكَ بِمَا یَقُولُونَ We are enough against you. We are enough for you against all of those who make fun of you. I'll take care of them for you. Who are the ones who made fun of him? When are they mentioned? In the beginning. And at the end, Allah says, I'll take care of them. And then Allah also says, وَلَقَدۡ نَعۡلَمُ أَنَّكَ یَضِیقُ صَدۡرُكَ بِمَا یَقُولُونَ We already know that your chest hurts. Your heart hurts. You get bad feelings in your heart because of what they say. That's mentioned at the end. Now, Allah doesn't say what they say at the end, because He already said that where? In the beginning and what is it that they say? That he's insane. So surahs-- even long surahs you'll find a beautiful correlation between the beginning and the end. Subject matters are tied like that, and by the way, that's good practice for a teacher, because teachers, if they know what they're doing when they start a class, they introduce the lesson, and when they end the class, they go over what they covered in the beginning. Before they tie up the lesson, they kind of do a quick review and they move on, right? So that's supposed to be a teaching methodology anyway, and it's captured and encapsulated inside the Quran.
