بسم الله والصلاة والسلام على رسول الله وعلى آله وصحبه أجمعين There are two words for the heart. Can you remind me what they are? ((قَلْب)) and ((فُؤَاد)). ((قَلْب)) is the normal word for the heart. ((فُؤَاد)) is used when? Some sort of excited situation. Emotional circumstance. You know beautifully in the Quran, Allah keeps track of these things at moments notice. So you find in one aayah of Surah al-Qasas both of the words used for the heart, at the same time. Allah says, وَأَصۡبَحَ فُؤَادُ أُمِّ مُوسَىٰ فَـٰرِغًا إِن كَادَتۡ لَتُبۡدِی بِهِۦ لَوۡلَاۤ أَن رَّبَطۡنَا عَلَىٰ قَلۡبِهَا لِتَكُونَ مِنَ ٱلۡمُؤۡمِنِینَ Musa's mother's heart was fleeing, fluttering away, emptied because she had just left her baby in the water and now the baby has gone so far, she can't even see him anymore. So she became almost emotionally paralyzed. And at that moment, the fear, and the grief, and the sadness, and the stress, the overwhelming emotions, the rage of emotions were so many that her heart is not described as just (قَلْب), but as what? (فُؤَاد) - because it's overwhelmed. It's burning. But then Allah says she almost gave up her secret. إِن كَادَتۡ لَتُبۡدِی بِهِ Meaning she almost ran out of her house running after the basket, saying, 'That's my baby!' She couldn't help herself, but Allah had to hold her back. And this is important to understand, because for a mother to hold back is actually probably psychologically impossible. It's probably psychologically impossible. I don't see an explanation of how that can happen. In other words, when a child when you take your child to the store and your child is holding on to your jilbab and you're walking and all of a sudden for two seconds, you don't feel the hand anymore. What do you do immediately? "Kareem? Kareem?" [screams] [laughs] How long before a mother goes crazy? I literally give it 10 seconds. A father doesn't see the kid anymore. "Eh, he's somewhere." You know, like "He's around." You know? But a mother. You give her 10 seconds. And she goes nuts. She goes crazy. Mothers don't care. There's an animal instinct that takes over that wants to protect the child, and nothing else matters. I've seen cases where there are people speeding on a road, lightly. Maybe it's 15 miles an hour and they're going 18 miles an hour and there are kids playing in the porch. But they're not on the street. The mother comes out with a bat. "Slow your car down!" "My Children are playing here." "Oh my God. Lady." "Whoa, whoa, whoa." Because there's a protective instinct of a mother. This mother just put her baby in water. What is her first instinct? You think she's sure about what she's doing? Like, "Eh, it's a good idea." "Hi." No. She wants to drag it back. And now that it's gone, what do I do? She can't sit still. She almost came out of the house and gave up the secret. So something has to hold her back. So Allah says, لَوۡلَاۤ أَن رَّبَطۡنَا عَلَىٰ قَلۡبِهَا Had We not tied- knotted up on top of her heart. Meaning Allah gave her emotional stillness and calmness and stability so she could not lose it and go after her baby. Because it was important that she stayed calm right now, even though that is psychologically impossible, Allah had to intervene. So the calmness of her heart did not come from her. It came from Allah. It had to come from Allah. She wasn't capable of it on her own it was her (فُؤَاد). Allah came through and calmed her heart down. And when the heart calms down, and it's not overwhelmed by emotion anymore, what does it become? (قَلْب). So He says, لَوۡلَاۤ أَن رَّبَطۡنَا عَلَىٰ قَلۡبِهَا When it calmed down it became (قَلْب) again. In it there's an incredible lesson also for us in regards to our emotional state. Some people say I have anger issues. There's nothing you can do about it. Other people say "I have, you know, I get really upset. I get really depressed." "What can I do? I can't help it. This is just who I am." It's not just who you are. And some people also say - this is also interesting - Some people are scarred. You have a fight with a cousin or a friend or a brother or a sister, and you're like, "Don't even say their name. Okay? When you say their name, I get upset. I can't even think about that person. It just makes me angry, you know, talk about something else." You don't want to look at them, talk to them, think about them. Ever. There are some of you that have that issue with your mother-in-law, your father-in-law, or somebody. You know? Issues like that happen. They sometimes even happen between siblings, between friends, used to be friends, now they hate each other's guts. They can't stand each other and they say, "My heart is scarred and it can't heal. I can't get over it. I cannot forget what happened. I cannot move on. I know that he's sorry for what he did. I know that he's changed. I know that everything is okay now, but I cannot let go of what happened." The idea in the aayah is that the mother of Musa (عليه السلام)  just put her baby in water. And now the baby has disappeared. Which means and as far as she can see, this is never going coming--this baby isn't coming back. It's gone. This sort of thing. Can this be emotionally traumatizing for a person? For a woman to have to go through that? You could say, that after going through something like that, she will never recover. She will never recover. But Allah intervened and had her had her recover immediately. Immediately, Allah gave her (رَبْط) on her (قَلْب). Now tell me, is the mother of Musa a prophet? No. Are the People of the Cave prophets? وَرَبَطۡنَا عَلَىٰ قُلُوبِهِمۡ إِذۡ قَامُوا۟ فَقَالُوا۟ رَبُّنَا رَبُّ ٱلسَّمَـٰوَ ٰ⁠تِ وَٱلۡأَرۡضِ Allah doesn't just tie the heart, and calm the heart down, and give the strength to the heart, and heal the heart for prophets. Allah intervenes between you and your heart. Allah comes into your heart and intervenes and fixes. وَٱعۡلَمُوۤا۟ أَنَّ ٱللَّهَ یَحُولُ بَیۡنَ ٱلۡمَرۡءِ وَقَلۡبِهِ Allah says it Himself. He intervenes in your heart. In other words, Allah has the capacity to move you forward to let you let go of the past. To heal the previous damage that was done. And you can live your life. There are some people who, many of you still sitting in the audience, you're living in the past. Something that happened to you and you can't let go of it. You think about it all the time and it scars you even more and you don't let go and you remember it and you get even more depressed. Husband and wife had a fight six months ago. Everything is okay now. But then one day the wife says, "Remember when we had a fight?" He goes, "Yeah, I know. That was silly."
"No it wasn't silly. It was serious." "I still remember what you said..." and it starts all over again. He's like, "Wait, this was six months ago. Why are you replaying the video?" And, it's like, they just fought because she can't let go of what happened. Even though things worked out, everything was okay, but she's not able to let go. Sometimes the guy is not able to let go. This is (رَبْطُ الْقَلْب). Allah can give strength to your heart if you seek it from Him. You know, when we talk about the discussions about our heart in Islam. Usually we think about imaan, and taqwaa, and khawf of Allah, and khushoo' our relationship with Allah. That's what we think about when we think about the heart. But actually in the Quran, the discussion about the heart isn't just about our relationship with Allah. It is also about our relationship with people because, you know, Allah says on Judgement Day إِلَّا مَنۡ أَتَى ٱللَّهَ بِقَلۡبࣲ سَلِیمࣲ The only people who will be safe on the Day of Judgment are people who come to Allah with a healthy heart. But my heart doesn't just have a love and a belief and a faith and a fear of Allah. My heart also has love for my mother, and my wife, and my children, and everybody else in my life. And if there are fights, and arguments, and hatred, and jealousy, and whatever else, that's also - where does that stuff live? In my heart. So if I have feelings towards other people, my heart is not healthy. If I'm going to come before Allah, I need a healthy heart. Not just a heart that's healthy towards Him. Healthy altogether. Which means my dealings with people need to be good. They need to be sound. We need to amend our relationships. That's captured inside: لَوۡلَاۤ أَن رَّبَطۡنَا عَلَىٰ قَلۡبِهَا SubhaanAllah. Okay, I'll give you a couple more quick examples. This is a really fun example. ٱهۡبِطُوا۟ مِصۡرࣰا فَإِنَّ لَكُم مَّا سَأَلۡتُمۡۗ Let me write this for you so you can tell the difference. (مِصۡرࣰا) and (مِصْرَ). (مِصْرَ) (مِصْرًا) When you say (مِصْرًا) with a tanween, it actually means countryside, farmland, etcetera, etcetera. When you say (مِصْرَ), it means Egypt. One little difference. The difference is "an" versus "a", the technical discussion here (مَمْنُوع مِنَ الصَّرْف) versus (مُعْرَب) Who cares? All it means at the end is (مِصْرًا) is for countryside. (مِصْرَ) is for Egypt. Now, Fir'awn says, أَلَیۡسَ لِی Listen to the Arabic. Tell me if it's countryside or Egypt. Okay, that's your job. أَلَیۡسَ لِی مُلۡكُ مِصۡرَ Egypt. Don't I alone own the entire Kingdom of Egypt? Who asked that question? Fir'awn. أَلَیۡسَ لِی مُلۡكُ مِصۡرَ وَهَـٰذِهِ ٱلۡأَنۡهَـٰرُ تَجۡرِی مِن تَحۡتِیۤۚ These rivers flow under my feet! This is my land. Egypt is mine. That's what he said. Okay. This aayah ٱهۡبِطُوا۟ مِصۡرࣰا فَإِنَّ لَكُم مَّا سَأَلۡتُمۡ مِصۡرࣰا Was that Egypt or countryside? Countryside. Okay, so now we have to figure out why Musa (عليه السلام) used this word. Musa (عليه السلام) helped the Israelites cross the water. They escaped the clutches of Fir'awn. They're out in the middle of the desert and they were going to die because it's a desert. There's no food. There's no water. So what did Allah do? First of all, Allah provided them an umbrella. Allah gave them (اَلْغَمَام). The clouds that would follow them everywhere, the Israelites. So they got a divine umbrella from Allah. So they're not scorched under the sun. But that's not enough. Now they need water. How did they get water? Anybody know? How did the Israelites get water in the desert? I'll wait. Let this get awkward. It's fine.

How many springs? Twelve springs. He hit his staff, twelve springs came out, remember? Right, so that's water. Okay, well, water is not enough to survive. We've got cover. We've got water. What else do you need? Food. How did they get food? What food was it? (مَنَّ) and (سَلْوَى), right? وَأَنزَلۡنَا عَلَیۡكُمُ ٱلۡمَنَّ وَٱلسَّلۡوَىٰۖ (مَنَّ) and (سَلوَى), you can say, it's a kind of seed or grain that they could use to make bread. And a kind of bird, like a quail kind of bird that actually, some say, wouldn't fly away when they would try to catch it. So it was easy to catch. Cook. Eat. So they've got food - they've got bread, and they've got meat. They've got carbohydrates, and they've got proteins. They're set. And they've got drink. They've got water. So they're living in the desert, and they're eating (مَنَّ) and (سَلوَى), And the guy says to his friend, "Hey, what do you want to have for dinner?" "I'm thinking we should have some (مَنَّ) and (سَلوَى) today." "What about breakfast? What do you want to do for breakfast? I got an idea. How about (سَلْوَى) and (مَنَّ)? [crowd laughs] "I don't know what to do for lunch today." Breakfast and lunch. Then dinner. (مَنَّ ) and (سَلوَى), then (مَنَّ ) and (سَلوَى), then (مَنَّ ) and (سَلوَى). Do you have the same breakfast? Same lunch and same dinner every day? You guys? Do you? Really, you do? Same exact thing for breakfast and lunch and dinner? No. As a matter of fact, when you're about to have the same exact meal the second time, You say, "Hey, I already had this... What? "What's going on? Is everything okay?" When the wife gives you lunch and she says, "Can I give you for dinner the same thing I gave you for lunch?." You're like, "Excuse me? Same thing for dinner that I had for lunch - I'm going out to eat! I don't do the same food twice!" The Israelites are doing the same food three times a day for months and months and months and months and months. So eventually one of the guys he's sitting with his friend and he says, "Hey, man, remember back in the day in Egypt before we were out in the desert, we used to have garlic and lentil and onions and tomatoes and cucumbers. Ohhhhh." And he's sitting there chewing on his (مَنَّ ) and (سَلوَى) and he's thinking about the entire salad he used to have. And he's like, "Wow! And yeah, I remember. Yes. Mm. Mmhm. I can taste it. Hey, let's go ask Musa. He can make dua to Allah. We've ate enough of this chicken and bread long enough. This fake chicken and bread. Let's go ask him for some, you know, some side dishes, some salad, some spices. So they go to Musa (عليه السلام) and they say, فَٱدۡعُ لَنَا رَبَّكَ یُخۡرِجۡ لَنَا مِمَّا تُنۢبِتُ ٱلۡأَرۡضُ مِنۢ بَقۡلِهَا وَقِثَّاۤىِٕهَا وَفُومِهَا وَعَدَسِهَا وَبَصَلِهَا Can we get some garlic, and lentil, and onion, and etcetera? And can we get some fries with that? Some extra ketchup on the side? I mean, while we're at it. Now the question is, where did they learn the names of these vegetables? Did they learn the names of these vegetables in the desert? Clearly not. From Egypt. They knew these vegetables from Egypt. So they're asking for food that they used to have in Egypt. On a side note, I recently found out that in Egyptology they studied the food of the elite, the food of the elite ancient Egyptians, and in their food, these vegetables that are mentioned in the Quran were actually used in this order of priority and quantity for elite family foods. So they remember watching rich people eat that food and say, "Man, I wish I could have that." That's where this comes from. Anyway. So they asked for these vegetables and Musa (عليه السلام) says to them - before I tell you what he says to them, I need you to understand something further. So they are missing the food they used to eat in Egypt, yes? But wasn't Egypt a life of slavery? Wasn't Egypt jail? Egypt was jail. When two guys get out of jail and say, "Man, I missed that prison food. That was good food." When you say I miss prison food, isn't it the same as saying I miss prison? If you're saying I miss the food I used to eat or look at as a slave, isn't that the same as saying I miss slavery? They go to Musa (عليه السلام), and they say, "Can we have some of that food we used to have when we were in jail?" Musa (عليه السلام) is so angry at them. "Are you asking for Egypt?" He wants to say, "Are you asking me for Egypt all over again?" But he doesn't. Musa (عليه السلام) is sarcastic. And he's got an incredible sense of humor here. He's says,
اِهْبِطُوا مِصْرًا "Why don't you go down to the countryside." But for countryside, you could use (بَلَد) or (أَرْض) or (قَريَة). You could use any word. Of all the words Musa (عليه السلام) could have used, he used (مِصْرًا). What does (مِصْرًا) mean? Countryside. But it sounds awfully close to what? Egypt. It's like he said, "Why don't you go into another Egypt - I mean countryside?" [laughs] And he said that because they're asking for food from Egypt. So it's like they're asking for a repeat of what happened in Egypt. Now let's analyze for a little bit. What is so bad about Egypt? What is so bad about it? For them being in Egypt? Three things. When you're slaves, you're humiliated. First problem. It's a humiliating life. When you're slaves, you are stuck. You cannot - There's no upward mobility. You cannot say, "At least I was living a poor life, my children will live a better life. I didn't go to college, my kids will go to college. I only worked in, you know, entry level. My children will become managers or own businesses." If you are slaves, you are stuck and so are your children. And so are their children. And so are their children. You understand that? The first problem was humility - or humiliation. The second problem is you're trapped. And so are your generations. The third problem, especially in Egypt, is every other year, what does the king do? He kills babies. Meaning they are victims of a king's craziness. A king's anger. They received the king's rage. Three problems in Egypt. Can I repeat those problems for you? You tell me. What was the first problem? Humiliation. What was the second problem? Huh? They're stuck. Not just them, their future generations too. What's the next problem? The rage of Fir'awn. The rage of Fir'awn. Okay. They ask for the food from Egypt. Musa says, "Why don't you go down to another Egypt." Countryside, Egypt, same thing. Allah says, فَإِنَّ لَكُم مَّا سَأَلۡتُمۡ And in it is what you asked for and then some. You don't even know what you asked for. It's like Musa (عليه السلام) is saying, "Well, you asked for it. You asked for it." So they go in. And what does Allah say? Allah says, وَضُرِبَتۡ عَلَیۡهِمُ ٱلذِّلَّةُ وَٱلۡمَسۡكَنَةُ وَبَاۤءُو بِغَضَبࣲ مِّنَ ٱللَّهِ Allah says, the second time around, they were slapped with humiliation. This is after Egypt. They were slapped with humiliation. Was that a problem in Egypt? Yes. Then He says they were slapped with being trapped. Stuck, cannot move out, cannot move up. Was that the problem in Egypt? Yes. Then He says, وَبَاۤءُو بِغَضَبࣲ And they drew upon themselves rage. Wait. Was that a problem in Egpyt? They drew rage upon themselves? But in Egypt, whose rage did they draw upon themselves? Fir'awn's. This time Allah says, وَبَاۤءُو بِغَضَبࣲ مِّنَ ٱللَّهِ They drew upon themselves rage from Allah. Wow. In one word Musa said, "You're asking for another Egpyt." And then Allah describes, "Let me tell you why this was even worse than Egypt." This was even worse than Egypt. And that entire sarcastic commentary is captured inside just that one word. ٱهۡبِطُوا۟ مِصۡرࣰا فَإِنَّ لَكُم مَّا سَأَلۡتُمۡ SubhaanAllah. Surah al-Saff, Allah (عز وجل) says, - He talks about Musa (عليه السلام), then He talks about Isa (عليه السلام). Aayaat are back to back. They're back to back aayaat. Who did Musa (عليه السلام) come to? Which nation? The Israelites. Who did Isa come to? Same nation. They both were sent to the same nation. Banu Israa'eel. Yes? Okay. Now, when Musa spoke to them, Allah says, وَإِذۡ قَالَ مُوسَىٰ لِقَوۡمِهِ I want you to just appreciate the English. I think I wrote it down over here. Look at the English. When Musa (عليه السلام) spoke, he addresses them as his nation. Allah says Musa spoke to his nation. وَإِذۡ قَالَ مُوسَىٰ لِقَوۡمِهِ To his nation. But Allah did not say that for Isa. وَإِذۡ قَالَ عِیسَى ٱبۡنُ مَرۡیَمَ Not,
وَإِذۡ قَالَ عِیسَى ٱبۡنُ مَرۡیَمَ لِقَوۡمِهِ "Isa spoke to his nation." So here's the easy comparison, so you can visualize it. Musa said to his nation. And Isa Son of Maryam, said. What's missing in the second one? "To his nation." And when he spoke to them, he said,

یَـٰقَوۡمِ My nation! لِمَ تُؤۡذُونَنِی Why are you torturing me? That's how he spoke to them. When Isa spoke to them, he said. یَـٰبَنِیۤ إِسۡرَ ٰ⁠ۤءِیلَ Sons of Israel!

He did not call them what? My nation. The thing is, to be from a nation, your father has to be from that nation. To be from a nation, your father has to be from the nation. Musa (عليه السلام) spoke to them and he said, "My nation." Which is his way of saying, "I am from you," because who's from you also? "My father is from you also." Isa (عليه السلام) will never call them his nation. Why not? He doesn't have a father. So Allah will never call them "his nation". Nor will he ever call them "my nation". Actually, when he speaks to them, he will say "Sons of Israel" because he is a unique case. In his case and only his case his identity does not come from his father. His identity comes from his mother, and that's unique, which is why he's the only prophet where you find "ibn something". Because he's a unique case, so Allah does not only say Isa, He says "Isa ibn Maryam." Because that normally doesn't happen. Normally, where do you get your last name from? Your father. Isa (عليه السلام) gets his last name from his mother. Isa ibn Maryam. He gets his last name from his mom because there's no dad involved. There's no father there. And so the perfection of the Quran in maintaining the the virgin birth of Isa (عليه السلام) in
یَـٰبَنِیۤ إِسۡرَ ٰ⁠ۤءِیلَ It was interesting. I was having a conversation with a rabbi not too long ago, about ethnicity. On ethnicity. Because Orthodox Jews and Jewish scholars nowadays, they believe that to be Jewish, your mother has to be Jewish. Your father could be from anywhere. But if your mother - so long as your mother is Jewish, you're Jewish. In other words, to them, ethnicity does not come from the father. Ethnicity comes from the mother. That's according to them. I said, "That's interesting. So are you sure about that?" He goes, "Yep, Absolutely. We're sure." "So, okay. Well, then what about Musa? Musa's kids?" Because Musa (عليه السلام) left Egypt. He went to Madyan. They know that too, they call it Midian. Madyan according to them is Arab land. We know also it's Arab land. He got married there to an Arab lady. Then they had kids. And those kids were born from an Arab woman, which means Moses, my rabbi friend, has Arab kids. According to you.

And he said, "Wow, that's interesting." [laughs] That's all he said. I was like, "Why you gotta hate bro? It's just your cousins." [laughs] You know? We have some fun conversations, the rabbi and I. On that note, I do want to tell you I'm a big believer in not talking about the Jews. I'm a big believer in talking to the Jews. I would rather talk to them. You know why? Because Allah did. Allah said,
یَـٰبَنِیۤ إِسۡرَ ٰ⁠ۤءِیلَ Sons of Israel. Did he talk about them or to them? To them. So if I am a believer in this book, then I better believe in a conversation with Jews. And I don't believe that I have to debate with them. And I don't believe that I have to, you know, love them either. I just believe that I have to have a civil conversation with them. There's nothing wrong with it. I can disagree with them all I want. They can disagree with me, too. It's a free world. It's fine. We should be able to have a conversation. There's nothing wrong with that. I'll walk into a church. I'll go talk to a minister. No problem. I'm not there to debate with him. I just wanna talk to him. I would say, "Hey! I don't agree with what you're saying, but let's go get some pizza." That's fine. And they do that too, some of them. This rabbi, he's a good friend, actually, we talk all the time. And we go to a kosher restaurant, sometimes. When we did go to a kosher restaurant last time, there were all these other like very orthodox Jews in the restaurant, and they all gave me the dirtiest look and they came to him and said, "Shalom, How are you?" [incomprehensible muttering] They did the whole Hebrew thing. And they pretended I wasn't there the entire time, and he apologized for them. To me, he's like, "Don't worry, it'll take some time."
I was like, "I don't need time. It's okay, I understand." But I respect the guy. I learned a lot from him. I learned a lot about what not to believe. From him. [laughs] You know? And you know why I personally believe we should learn from them, additionally, not just because Allah addresses them. The fact that Allah addressed them, means that you know, the way they think about the Quran is different from how we think about the Quran, isn't it? Now, Allah talks to us in the Quran and Allah also talks to them in the Quran. But when they hear the Quran, they process it differently. So I want to understand how they process it, like what background do they have? What thought process do they have? So when they hear the aayaat, what is their reaction? I want to see things from their perspective, too. I just - I think it gives me a different insight. It makes me appreciate things and I disagree with him on a lot of stuff, a lot from the beginning to end. But it's still fun. It was a good conversation. Like, for example, our conversations about Ibrahim (عليه السلام) Uff. Man. They took Ibrahim (عليه السلام) and they turned him into a different person. He's not the same Ibrahim that we believe in. It's somebody else they're talking about. It's crazy. It's just crazy, but it's fascinating because, you know, for us, Ibrahim (عليه السلام) is the ultimate example of submission. إِذۡ قَالَ لَهُۥ رَبُّهُۥۤ أَسۡلِمۡ قَالَ أَسۡلَمۡتُ لِرَبِّ ٱلۡعَـٰلَمِینَ And for them, Ibrahim (عليه السلام) is the ultimate example of how you have the right to argue with God, but it's still all good. So I mean, look, the Quran does not command us, or encourage us, or tell us to hate Jews. So that's not - you're not a better Muslim because you hate Jews, or whatever. We don't hate anybody. The Prophet (صلى الله عليه وسلم) didn't hate anybody. The sunnah of the Prophet (صلى الله عليه وسلم) is to have concern for all of humanity. It's the sunnah. If anyone has a right to love and hate, and punish and judge, it is Allah Himself. SubhaanAllah Ta'aalaa. Not us. All of us are children of Adam وَلَقَدۡ كَرَّمۡنَا بَنِیۤ ءَادَمَ "We honored the children of Adam." Which means all children of Adam, so long as they are considered children of Adam, inherently, are noble people. Human beings. I don't care if they're Hindu, or Muslim, or Jewish, or Christian, or whatever - Atheist. Whatever. Human beings have dignity, they have respect. Even if they don't have respect for you, You, as a Muslim, know that Allah gave respect to all human beings, You give respect to people. That's what we have to - how we carry ourselves matters. So many times people in the name of Islam, in the name of the Quran, they think Allah's angry with the Jews. Therefore, I must be angry with the Jews. Uhh, no. No. What Allah has a right to do and what you have a right to do are two different things. It's not the same thing, you know? SubhaanAllah. Anyway, I digress.
