I'm going to quickly now move along to the next section of our discussion. Textual arguments for the organization of the Koran. And I'm going to open up the screen for you because I want to show you this Ayah. Actually, no. Let me let me try to do this without screen. Let's just talk you through this First thing I want you to know is there are two main names for the Koran in the Koran, Koran and Kitab. Okay, Koran and Kitab. Now I want you to pay attention to this. Koran comes from the word قَرَأَ. What does قَرَأَ mean? to recite out loud to recite verbally. Okay, to pronounce. Now, when you do recitation out loud, is that an oral experience or a written experience? People experience the Koran orally, and the oral experience would be the listen the audible experience of the Koran would be called Koran. If when people are reading the book, they're reading something written, their eyes are doing the work. With Koran what's doing the work? The tongue and the ear. When you call the Koran Kitab. What does Kitab mean? book. What's doing the work? The eyes are doing the work, you understand. So when the Koran uses the word Kitab it is referring to the written document. When the Koran uses the word Koran is referring to the audible experience. You with me? Okay. Now listen. Allah says, By the way, what is in the heavens Is Koran in the heavens? Or is Kitab in the heavens? Because Koran refers to what is being recited. You with me? Okay. اِنَّهُ لَقُرْآنٌ كَرِيمٌ Which name did you hear? Is the Koran the name for the book as it is experienced in this world? Or as it is documented in the heavens? This world, because here's where we listen to it. What is the name of the book up there? Kitab what the reference to it would be Kitab Which is, by the way, why in Baqara,
ذَلِكَ الْكِتَابُ that, not this Book, but that Book. That means it's far away هذا الكتاب
would have been this book, because it's far away, He says that book because it's not here. Now listen.
اِنَّهُ لَقُرْآنٌ كَرِيمٌ
it is a noble recital. Of course, I'm using the word recital because it is heard here, Listen,
ٍفِي كِتَابٍ مَكْنُون اِنَّهُ لَقُرْآنٌ كَرِيمٌ ٍفِي كِتَابٍ مَكْنُون ‏لَّا يَمَسُّهُۥٓ إِلَّا ٱلْمُطَهَّرُونَ ‎ It is a noble Recital found where in the hidden away book that only the most purified can touch. What are these two Ayat are doing? If Allah was referring to lawhal mahfuz the word to be used was
انه لكتاب كريم you know, and even
فِى كِتَبٍ مَّكْنُونٍۢ It's part of the larger book, but this book is part of a larger book, He says this recital is part of a larger book, He says,
بَلۡ هُوَ قُرۡءَآنٌ مَّجِيدٌ فِي لَوْحِ مَحْفُوظِۭ It's a majestic recital found in lawh al-mahfuz Now let's let's think about the work Kitab for a second. What does Kitab mean again? Written document to write. Look, in old Arabic Kitab was not like you take a pen and you write. It certainly wasn't this or this. It wasn't that Kitab back in the day was to take a knife or something sharp and carve into a piece of wood. It was to stitch
ٌكِتَابٌ مَرْقُوم stitching, etching, you know, which is why did you know that Persians, when they write they have curvy letters, but Arabic, original Arabic, strict script is very angles. Do you know why it's angles? Because it's kind of hard to curve scratch.

This is why the Arabic numbers are the way they are guys. The Arabic numbers are zig zag for four. I mean, we turned them into we made the number five looks like a heart. It didn't look like no heart. That's not what it looks like. The numbers are there, they're angled. And, by the way, just something something about the Arabic numbers. The original Arabic numbers well, you know how you have the Mushaf the page numbers? That's actually Persian script. You know how we write numbers in English? 12345. That's Arabic script That's actually Arabic script. And originally, the way they wrote it is if it only has one angle that's the number one. They wrote the number two like Z. Why? Because it has two angles. They wrote the number three like this because it has how many? three angles. The number four has four angles. Five has five angles. Six has six angles. That's how they wrote it. Okay, that's that's the logic of the numbering with the Arabs. But it was all straight lines like the number eight. Think of it as two squares on top of each other. How many angles do you get inside? Four and four, you get eight angles. That's how they did that. Okay. So in any case, the thing I wanted to share with you about this is that if it's carved, let's just say Bismillah Rahman Rahim is carved. Can you change the order now? Is the order up for discussion now? And something that is carved in, etched in, written in the order can no longer be changed. If you were reciting something, you could decide to recite the verse, the third verse of the poem first and the second verse first. But what what paper can't be changed now. It's not like a word document. It's not like an editorial process is possible. Allah saying this recital is the same as the one carved in with Him, and the one that's carved in, definitely has a set sequence by calling the Koran. By the way, there's a second argument. Just let's think about the word Kitab. Is Kitab a definite name of the Koran? Sure. Does a book by definition have a set sequence? By the when you call something a book, are you saying it has a set order? Yeah. If you take any book in any civilization and humanity, when you take any book, Arab or otherwise, and you take its chapters and you move them around have you messed with the intention of the author? Have you now somehow corrupted the teaching process of that book? You have. A book by definition is set in its sequence, just like writing itself, at the core, is set in its sequence. Using the word Kitab for the Koran itself is proof that actually it is it is in fact, a book. Now here's an Arabic sentence. Arabic students here might know. If you don't know Arabic it's okay. You don't need to feel bad. Just feel jealous. جمعه علينا جمعه علينا جمع
means gathering على
here means our responsibility.
جمعه علينا What does it mean? It's gathering is our responsibility. I'll put an ان on it
ان جمعه علينا
What would that mean? Certainly it's gathering is our responsibility. Okay, here's the thing with Arabic students that are from this institute. Don't humiliate me. It's being recorded ان علينا جمعه ان علينا جمعه
How do you translate that?
ان علينا جمعه It is only our responsibility to gather it. That's the Ayah in Surah al-Qiyamah is Allah takes exclusive responsibility for gathering the Koran, and He says, جمعهُ meaning the whole thing if He said, جمعها it will be the Ayat. But جمعه, He is referring to the whole thing. And then He adds, وقرآنه It's only Our responsibility, meaning no one else is responsible for gathering the Koran except Us. And then no one else is responsible for getting it recited قرآنه, to get it recited If you compile something, if you took responsibility to compile articles, papers, you know, information and then you recited it, isn't there a set order? You gathered it and you had it recited. Now let me take you to the historical argument I skipped because it's tied to this textual evidence. In the last year of the Prophet ﷺ he recited the entire Koran to the angel Jibril. Twice. There was a companion in the presence of the Prophet ﷺ,  his name is Zaid Zaid ibn Thabit He was in the company of the Prophet ﷺ when he recited the entire Koran twice. It is the same Zaid that was in charge of the compilation project in the time of Uthman. Remember Uthman we talked about him? The one in charge of compiling the Surah, or the Surahs of the Koran in this order The person in charge of that project was who? Zaid radiyallahu 'anhu . Why was Zaid in charge? I kind of give you the answer already. He was present for the entire recitation. I mean, a lot of people memorized Koran, but he's the most authorized source. It's inconceivable to think he would agree to any sequence other than the one he heard himself from Prophet ﷺ and Allah says, by the end, don't worry. This is an early Makki Surah. Don't worry. By the end, I'll make sure the whole thing gets recited. I'll take responsibility for gathering all of it, and only I will make sure that the entire thing gets recited and it got recited. The promise of Allah was fulfilled إِنَّ عَلَيْنَا جَمْعَهُۥ وَقُرْءَانَهُۥ Another textual argument. Keep we keep moving forward. كِتَٰبٌ Wait. I already gave you the argument that Kitab means book which has a set order, but He goes further and says,
كِتَٰبٌ أُحْكِمَتْ ءَايَٰتُهُ whose Ayat are stitched together. Ihkam means to tight-stitch two things together. When you stitch and you weave, are each is each weave in a certain place in a certain order? Ayat have been stitched together, held together tightly, exactly where they're supposed to be. The imagery of stitching is if even one knot or one thread is out of place the thing falls apart. Koran's Ayat are described as stitched or woven together That's part of the meaning of the word Hakim. When Allah says, يس وَالْقُرْآنِ الْحَكِيمِ
I swear by the Koran that is, wells well woven, well stitched. The use of the word Hakim itself becomes an evidence. Then this is a smaller part of the discussion, but I'll, uh, because we're going to talk about it at length later on. But the fact that Allah 'azza wa jalla would describe an entire Surah an entire Surah, because He didn't just say He gave us the Koran. He didn't just say He gave us the Ayat that he would say سورة انزلناها فاذا انزلت سورة Entire Surah was given. This is now we're not just talking about the order of Surahs. Even inside a Surah Allah is calling all of its Ayat together one Surah, one unit, So that becomes an evidence by itself. But I want to share something with you about the word Surah. Well, it's It's, uh, original, meaning one of the original ways in which the word Sawra and Surah was used check this out, was one of the floors of a multi-floor building, one of the floors of a multi floor building منزلة actually منزاة في البناء was actually a Surah. What does that necessarily suggest? There's a floor under it. There's a floor after it. There's actually a Surah then a Surah the a Surah then a Surah, using the word Surah suggests it's part of a larger sequence. The word itself suggests that it's part of a larger sequence that's built into pun intended, built because it's just a part of a building. It's built into the mechanism of the language of the word Surah. Okay, All right, I'm going to give you a short break. And then because I want you to be fresh for the spiritual arguments, these were some of the textual arguments that I've shared with you. Uh, you know, the use of the word Kitab, Koran compared with the Kitab إِنَّ عَلَيْنَا جَمْعَهُۥ وَقُرْءَانَهُۥ اَلْحَمْدُ لِلَّٰهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينِ وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى سَيِّدِ الْأَنْبِيَاءِ وَالْمُرْسَلِينِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ اَجمَعِينَ ثُمَّ اَمَّا بَعْدُ َاَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم وَرَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَلَى وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ Um we are supposed to start our study of case studies today and go through an outline of the case studies. But before I do, I wanted to make one additional comment about textual evidence, Uh, and add something that occurred to me last night that I didn't mention. Uh and that is the Ayah of the Koran
إِنَّا نَحْنُ نَزَّلْنَا الذِّكْرَ وَإِنَّا لَهُ لَحَافِظُونَ So I'll take a few minutes and explain that to you and why that's an important piece of evidence for why the Koran is in heavenly order. I mentioned to you yesterday or the previous session that there are two names for the Koran that are very popular in the Koran, Kitab and Koran. There's another name, al-Dhikr
إِنْ هُوَ إِلَّا ذِكْرٌ
إِنَّا نَحْنُ نَزَّلْنَا الذِّكْرَ No doubt it is We certainly We and only We that sent the reminder down. So one of the names of the Koran is the Reminder. That's important from another point of view. That's not the subject of our study in this particular course, but still you should know one of the benefits of the Koran being called a reminder is that when you know you could think of the Koran as Allah speaking right, so you can incorrectly say that it's autobiographical, meaning Allah is the speaker in the Koran but actually Allah is not the speaker in the Koran Allah is the teacher in the Koran And speaking and teaching are two very different things. Okay, Teacher has a particular goal for his students or her students. A teacher wants to get something across that they want the students to use in some way. Okay, a speaker just wants to get something across to you. That's it. They're just expressing themselves The Koran If Allah was only speaking from His point of view and only His point of view like a speaker does, you wouldn't find Alhamdulillahi or Bismillah Rahman Rahim or A'oozu billahi or قُلْ أَعُوذُ بِرَبِّ الْفَلَقِ It would have been Qul a'oozu bi Say, seek refuge of Me. It would be in My Name because Allah is speaking He would say in My Name Or instead of saying alhamdulillah, I would say Hamd belongs to Me. That would be consistent throughout the entire Koran because Allah is the one speaking. So it would always be in the first person, makes sense? If you're the author of a book. If I'm writing a book, I'm not gonna say Nouman Ali Khan is really tired today or I'm not gonna, I'm tired. I'm speaking on my behalf. So why does the Koran, even though it's Allah speaking, speak of Allah in the third person? That's an important question. And part of what answers that question is one of the names of the Koran dhikr the name of the Koran dhikr means what again? So Allah taught the Koran in a way that if I cited to you, if I quoted to you and if I read an Ayah onto you that you would immediately get the benefit of reminder from it, and I would too, if, for example, Astaghfirullah means what? Okay, Astaghfirullah seek refuge of Allah or seek forgiveness of Allah If it was Wastaghfiruni seek forgiveness of Me and you wanted to just somebody's, you know, committed a sin and you're trying to say just it's okay, just making stuff up. Look, you know, and you don't even quote. You have to say, you know, Allah says and I quote, seek forgiveness of Me. Otherwise, you if you just say Hey, don't worry, Astaghfiruni Like what? What do you mean? No, no, I'm quoting Allah says Me Allah made that easy for us by instead of teaching us, Seek forgiveness of Me or praise Me or thank Me, He said, and said What? Alhamdulillah This is why this is how we can remember Allah better and we can remind others with it better. That's one of its functions. The word dhikr also helps us appreciate that the Koran will repeat itself, because when you want to remind somebody, reminder necessarily necessitates repetition. The very definition of reminder is to say something that's already been said before, so the repetition of the Koran is part of its design, and that's embodied in the word dhikr. But there's another dimension to the word dhikr. and that is that the Koran is something to be memorized. It's something committed to memory. It's not just it's a remembrance that will actually be remembered by the people and remarkably, in the Koran, Allah 'azza wa jalla describes the essence of the Koran, not on paper, the essence of the Koran There's the original written document with Allah, but the essence of the Koran as it is on the earth, what does Allah say? بَلْ هُوَ ءَايَٰتٌۢ بَيِّنَٰتٌ فِى صُدُورِ ٱلَّذِينَ أُوتُواْ ٱلْعِلْمَ These are clear, miraculous signs that reside in the chests of those have been given knowledge. He's referring to those that have memorized the Koran, isn't He? This is where the Ayat lie. That's the essence of the Koran. It's actually lives inside the hearts of believers around the world. So when Allah says
إِنَّا نَحْنُ نَزَّلْنَا الذِّكْرَ We are the ones who sent down the reminder, the remembrance and you can also the Masdar can also be understood as a Maf'ul, the thing to be remembered, that which must be remembered meaning the Koran and then He says, وَإِنَّا لَهُ لَحَافِظُونَ
and We alone and We're the only ones that can guard it. And We're going to be its guardians. What's Allah guarding? The way the Koran is memorized. So in that Ayah the guardianship is part of what He's guarding the way we can remind each other with it. He's he's guarding the way we can remember Allah through it that's always going to be safe. And He's also guarding the way it's going to be memorized. And like Imam Hamiduddin Farahi said
بلغ هذا حدّ التواتر He said the idea of memorizing the Koran from Fatiha to Nas in this order and reciting it that went all over the world is basically so many multiple chains of narration that it's irrefutable, and I can tell you very easily it can be argued that the more you go through the, you know, the the the this years and centuries of history, the more variations there should have been, and the more Huffaz there became the more people who memorized the Koran, the more human error should have come into play. But Allah says, unlike any other form of of, of record, this one, this memorization is guarded by Allah Himself
إِنَّا نَحْنُ نَزَّلْنَا الذِّكْرَ So the memorization of the Koran is also something divinely protected and that memorization took place in this order. So that's one addition that I wanted to make to the discussion that we were  having today or yesterday. But the other brief comment along with that is just comparing the way we think about the preservation of the Koran as we have it to Western academic criticism. Okay, now let me say just a couple of things about Western academic criticism, they're rigorous in the way they study history. They're very thorough, Okay? They'll find a piece of paper somewhere, a parchment, you know, piece of leather or whatever. They're going to put it under a microscope. They're going to carbon date it. They're going to do all kinds of archaeological digging and investigations. And one person will do a five, six year study research PhD on one little piece of parchment they found somewhere in Egypt or Syria. That's how rigorous they are. That's no joke. The amount of work that they do. So I don't belittle that kind of rigor. And that kind of academic, you know, uh, work that they put in by any stretch of the imagination. I've seen the kind of work they do that puts us to shame, really, even in the realm of Islamic studies. The kind of you know work that's put in the kind of effort that's put in is humbling, really. But understand something. There's a worldview and in that worldview if you're going to look at history, the most protected kind of documents are written documents like, if you say this, this poem is a 1000 years old. Well, the only sure way to know it's 1000 years old is we found a piece of paper from how long ago? From 1000 years ago. And we were able to tell from the from the writing, from the kind of paper that was used from the place in which it was found we're able to date it that it's 1000 years old. So for them, the most important thing is the written record. If you have a written record, it's real because if you don't have a written record, then all you have is an oral tradition, and oral traditions are subject to error. I mean, you may have done this experiment in your college classrooms. In communication psychology, one person whispers something to the next person, and they're asked to whisper it to the person after them and then to the person after them and to the person after them. By the time you get to the 100th person, the first one said Bob pushed Joe. But the 100th one says Bob killed Joe and burned down his entire village and then, you know, everybody adds 0.1% without realizing it or takes away 0.1% without realizing it. Human error. But by the time word of mouth reaches somewhere else, it turns into something completely different, which is actually sort of what Allah describes, Ifk to be. Ifk means it means slander but actually originally means a deviation. Everybody adds a little bit of their own little turn. Then a little more turn, then a little more turn, and it turns into something entirely different. That's how Ifk works, right? So for them an oral tradition, it may have something that the original was, but obviously people have made their own creative editions. They couldn't even help it. It's human error, so the most protective kind of document in the Western mindset in the Western academic mindset is which kind of document? The written kind right and even the written kind, they're suspect. It's not even that the written kind is 100% the written one also there maybe that somebody smudged this word and added another word in. there may be some pages missing in between. There maybe this person had this agenda, so they changed the poem purpose or the writing on purpose. We're not sure what was going on with them, etcetera, etcetera. There are all these questions and investigations, even with the written, which is why the overall view of anything in Western academics, especially when it comes to history, is it was probably this way. This is our hypothesis. There is no way to know for sure. it's a safe road. Skepticism is a safe road. Islam when it comes to any other literature, you may apply that. But when it comes to the Koran, what Allah 'azza wa jalla has said about how He guarded memorization change the formula for the Koran, and you cannot apply that to any other text other than the Koran. After one year of Islam spreading after six months of Islam spreading from the Prophet's time ﷺ there's no way that people that are 1000 miles away from each other can check if they're memorizing or reciting the same exact thing. This one could be doing something wrong and teaching the wrong thing and then starting a school with the wrong thing. And there's no way to check by email or by server or by iCloud or that they're they're reciting the same exact way. So the possibilities of oral variation are endless. As a slob spreads, you can't even say, Well, they had a official copy of the Mushaf. Yeah, one city had one copy. You think everybody's under control like that? You think society can ever be contained like that? The variations just would have endlessly continued to the point where by the time we find ourselves today, there would be a huge debate what the Koran really is. And some of those variations are, if not thousands, at least hundreds of those variations should survive, And yet we find ourselves in a remarkable place in 2018. Uh, you we live in a city in Dallas and there are several programs where kids are memorizing Koran right and conduct this crazy experiment where electricity is taken away, libraries are shut down. All the books have been removed. There is no written document of any kind of anything accessible to human beings. And they're completely quarantined and, they're told, now reproduce the Bible. Reproduce the United States' Constitution and reproduce the Koran. Just reproduce it, right? A group of 100 people are taken from Irving, Texas, and just reproduce this document. Guess what happens within 24 hours? Well, you take the you take first Siparah I'll take second Siparah, we got this.

The memorization of the Koran is so incredibly protected that even if there was some scheme to get rid of all the written record of the Koran, even if somebody came up with a dubious, you know, bad copy of the Koran with additional Surahs or some Surahs taken away and printed millions of copies of them and distributed them, still get caught right away. Well, one Ayah missing, it would get caught right away with one word out of place it'd get caught right away. Sometimes publishers of Koran copies make some mistakes, and there's a fatha wrong or a word missing or something like that. And guess what? Within a day, Huffaz, by the way I was reviewing you have got to you have got to retract these books you got to reprint immediately. When does that happen with any book? A misquote can go unchecked and republished for generations before somebody says, Actually, that was  that wasn't an accurate quote. So this is part of
إِنَّا نَحْنُ نَزَّلْنَا الذِّكْرَ وَإِنَّا لَهُ لَحَافِظُونَ From the beginning to the end and it doesn't. You know, when you become indoctrinated in the Western skeptic mindset and you say, Well, the only way to check a document is valid is by the written record. And then you try to apply that to the Koran. And then you say, Well, there were some companions with a different order, or we found some parchments in some other parts of Yemen where there's some Surahs missing, and they have found such parchments. Our response to that is somebody memorized just those Surahs and wrote them down like I memorized, you know, Surah al-Kahf. And I didn't memorize, you know, Maryam and I didn't memorize Taha. I didn't memorize Anbiya, but I memorized Surah al-Hajj. So
بسم الله والصلاة والسلام على رسول الله وعلى آله وصحبه اجمعين Now we begin our study of apparently unrelated Ayat and that's that will be our first set of case studies. Uh, you know, I'll go through a few of these cases, but before I do, just some introductory comments are important. Inshallah, the first of them is that, yes, when you read the Koran, it's very clear that sometimes it's not obvious how Ayat are related to each other. Things are jumping from a topic that you were expecting to a topic that you did not expect at all. It will happen, and we're going to look at those kinds of cases. But this is actually a part of Allah's wisdom and Allah Himself says, وَيُعَلِّمُكُم مَّا لَمْ تَكُونُواْ تَعْلَمُونَ He teaches you what you couldn't could not possibly have known yourselves. Part of that is two things that you did not think were connected. Only Allah could have known that they are connected. Only Allah could have drawn a link between them that teaches you wisdom. That's not something you could have discovered yourself. That's something only Allah could teach. Have you ever been in a class sometimes where a professor says, I'm going to talk about something you're not going to see how it's related to the lesson until the end? Just bear with me, you're you're he's talking and you're like, What's he? What's he getting at? What's he getting at? What's he getting at? And by the end of it, oh, I get it. Does that happen? Well, that's the kind of trust you have to have in Allah as a teacher. When He switches from one topic to another, He's actually pushing you to think, I put this here on purpose. I made this subject change on purpose. I want to see what you will find in this, to discover this. The other way we know for sure that Ayat are absolutely related to each other they're absolutely related to each other is from the very beginning of the Koran, the Fatiha. الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ
الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيمِ
مَالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّينِ How many Ayat? Three Ayat. الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ
is one الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيمِ is two. مَالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّينِ is three
But grammatically how many sentences? It's one sentence because the second Ayah Majrur, begins by something that's necessarily connected to the what came before. Look at  الرَّحْمَنُ عَلَّمَ ٱلْقُرْءَانَ الرَّحْمَنُ
Mubtada عَلَّمَ الْقُرْآنَ
Khabar. It's one sentence. If it's one sentence in any mind, one sentence is one idea, isn't it? One sentence is not two ideas. One sentence is one idea, and that one sentence is broken up into three Ayat, into two Ayat as if to say three Ayat go together to make how many? One idea, which means those Ayat are inseparable. Allah Himself has given us many examples in the Koran to let us know that Ayat are inseparable, He says. فَوَيْلٌ لِّلْمُصَلِّينَ The worst, most terrible kind of destruction shall fall upon those who pray. That's an Ayah. When Allah 'azzawajal says the worst destruction shall fall upon those who pray. An Ayah by itself, it would be pretty bad if you were leading the Salah and you said, أَرَأَيْتَ الَّذِي يُكَذِّبُ بِالدِّينِ
فَذَلِكَ الَّذِي يَدُعُّ الْيَتِيمَ وَلا يَحُضُّ عَلَى طَعَامِ الْمِسْكِينِ فَوَيْلٌ لِّلْمُصَلِّينَ Allahu Akbar

Pushes the orphan, but the worst of them are the ones who pray. Allahu akbar You would have to know that that Ayah is necessarily connected to what? The next Ayah. You can't stop there.
الَّذِينَ هُمْ عَن صَلاتِهِمْ سَاهُونَ المصلين
الَّذِينَ هُمْ عَن صَلاتِهِمْ سَاهُونَ The kind of people who pray, who are lackadaisical about their prayer, who show off when they pray, they are the worst of the worst. Okay, the people who have artificial religion are the worst of the worst. Okay, so that's in and of itself by design, many places in the Koran are teaching us that an Ayah cannot be looked at in isolation. And if that's the case of one or two or three Ayat, it's not for me to say, Well, that's clearly here, but not everywhere. I'm going to apply that as a general rule. لِّيَدَّبَّرُوا آيَاتِهِ so they can contemplate His Ayat altogether the multiplicity of the Ayat. Similarly, you find in Surah al-Baqara Allah says, لَعَلَّكُمْ تَتَفَكَّرُونَ so you can think deeply. And the next idea begins
فِي الدُّنْيَا وَالْآخِرَةِ You can think deeply about what? This life and the next life, but it's not one Ayah, لَعَلَّكُمْ تَتَفَكَّرُونَ is the end of one Ayah and
فِي الدُّنْيَا وَالْآخِرَةِ is the next Ayah so they're connected to one another. And that's these instances in the Koran are already screaming at us that there is a necessary, necessary connectivity in the Koran. Ayat have Tanasub with each other. They have to be looked at in flow. Sometimes that flow Allah makes all too obvious. Sometimes He needs us to He wants us to contemplate and reflect and and find it in ourselves. There is, you know, Mustansir Mir in his book, quoted something from the Koran that I wouldn't I'm not as comfortable quoting on the subject, but I'll mention it anyway. Uh, he talks about al-Muqtasimeen al-Muqtasimeen a group mentioned, I believe, in Surah al-Hijr The people who divide up. The people who divide up. And there was like 16 opinions. Who are these people who divide up? Because they're criticized in the Ayah. Who are these al-Muqtasimeen? Some said because Iqtasama comes from Qasm So these are people who took an oath, They will never accept Islam. Maybe it's those people. Maybe it's people who swore an oath to one another to hold each other to the false religion and not let go. Okay, the other side said, no Muqtasimin is probably those who divided up the religion. In other words, these parts of the Koran, these pieces I like because Qism also means portion. this portion of Koran I like, this portion I don't like, this portion agrees with the Bible. Okay. This one doesn't agree with the Bible. Not okay. Others said I like the Surah except this this this part. They want to do Qism of the Koran, Taqsim of the Koran. That's why they're called Muqtasimin. So there were lots of different ways in which the word Muqtasimin was described. But then the next Ayah says, ٱلَّذِينَ جَعَلُواْ ٱلْقُرْءَانَ عِضِينَ They took the Koran and they broke it up into portions. They took the Koran and broke it into portions. Meaning, I'm gonna take this this piece. But I don't care about the rest of the pieces. And he actually, interestingly, cited it in his book on coherence in the Koran, making the case for it saying, we shouldn't be those who break the Koran into portions. The reason I'm not comfortable with that argument is because the original argument wasn't about this. The original argument was about people who want to accept parts of the message and not accept other parts of the message. Okay, in any case, now I'm going to share with you some cases of apparent non-existence of coherence in the Koran. And the first case study that we're going to look at is Surah 'Abasa. عَبَسَ وَتَوَلَّى Okay, this is Surah number 80 I believe in the Koran. And in Ayah number 24 to 32. That's the piece that so Surah 80 Ayah number 24 to 32. There seems to be a jump in the subject. In order to help you understand that first, I'd like you to pay attention as I'm going to try to translate in easy language the entire Surah, because it's a short Surah. And then I'll highlight the part that seems to be jumping out of subject. Okay, عَبَسَ وَتَوَلَّى 
He frowned and he turned away أَن جَاءَهُ الأَعْمَى 
that that the blind one came to him. وَمَا يُدْرِيكَ لَعَلَّهُ يَزَّكَّ 
And what would give you any clue? Perhaps the blind one that came to him he perhaps he wanted to purify himself to become better. أَوْ يَذَّكَّرُ
or he wanted to take some kind of reminder فَتَنفَعَهُ الذِّكْرَى 
thus the reminder would be of benefit to him. أَمَّا مَنِ اسْتَغْنَى
as for the one who feels like he has no need So the Prophet ﷺ  a blind person came Abdullah ibn Umm-Maktum came and he was. The Prophet ﷺ  was kind of upset that he was interrupting a conversation. The conversation was being held with the leader of Quraish, a V. I. P. So now the next Ayat are going to be about that V. I. P. أَمَّا مَنِ اسْتَغْنَى
as for the one who feels like he has no need. فَأَنتَ لَهُ تَصَدَّى
Then you're leaning towards him. You're  inclined towards him. وَمَا عَلَيْكَ أَلاَّ يَزَّكَّى
And it's not your responsibility if he doesn't become a purified person. وَأَمَّا مَن جَاءَكَ يَسْعَى 
And as for the one who came to you running وَهُوَ يَخْشَى  
And he's full of fear. فَأَنتَ عَنْهُ تَلَهَّى 
and you're dismissing him, you're disregarding of him. You're distracted of him. Interestingly enough, he's blind, and yet he's running, which is highlighting his desperation to seek some benefit. كَلاَّ  
No, no, no. إِنَّهَا تَذْكِرَةٌ 
it is nothing but a powerful reminder. or it certainly is a powerful reminder from فَمَن شَاء ذَكَرَهُ
whoever wants then they can they can make mention of it. They can remember from it فِي صُحُفٍ مُّكَرَّمَةٍ 
Its origin is in dignified scriptures, مَّرْفُوعَةٍ مُّطَهَّرَةٍ that are elevated and purified. بِأَيْدِي سَفَرَةٍ 
at the hands of noble angels كِرَامٍ بَرَرَةٍ 
that are dignified and righteous. This is all this last part is saying, Why are you desperate to impress this VIP with the Koran? The Koran is higher than him. The Koran came from the seventh heavens and it's in the he should be honored that he's even getting getting to hear it. So no, it's not at the service of him. He should be at the service of it. قُتِلَ الإِنسَانُ مَا أَكْفَرَهُ May the human being be killed. How ungrateful can he be? Who could that be a comment on? The leader that's there. How ungrateful are you? You're gonna talk like you don't need this message. You're gonna act like that? مَا أَكْفَرَهُ مِنْ أَيِّ شَيْءٍ خَلَقَهُ 
what was he created from? مِن نُّطْفَةٍ  
from a dirty fluid خَلَقَهُ فَقَدَّرَهُ He created him and He put him through stages ثُمَّ السَّبِيلَ يَسَّرَهُ
Then He made the doorway, the pathway easy for him. The mother opened up and the baby came out. Allah is literally reminding that leader of Quraish this is how I started you from sperm. And you I was there when you came out bloodied out of your mother. ثُمَّ السَّبِيلَ يَسَّرَهُ ثُمَّ أَمَاتَهُ فَأَقْبَرَهُ Then He, literally the past tense suggests here even the future Then He gave him death and put him in his grave. Also means then for sure, I'm gonna be giving you death. And I'm for sure I'm gonna be putting you in your grave. ثُمَّ إِذَا شَاء أَنشَرَهُ And then whenever He wants, He's gonna bring him back to life again. كَلاَّ لَمَّا يَقْضِ مَا أَمَرَهُ No, no, no. He hasn't yet fulfilled what he was commanded to do. He hasn't met his prerequisites yet. He's still he's still in defiance. So far, everything seems connected. Yes or no? Right. Now, listen, this is the part that's argued by, uh, you know, Orientalists, that it's disconnected. Montgomery Watt literally says this is a mistake in the Surah, Ma'ādh Allah. Look. Okay. فَلْيَنظُرِ الإِنسَانُ إِلَى طَعَامِهِ then the human being should take a good look at his food أَنَّا صَبَبْنَا الْمَاء صَبًّا 
that We caused water to pour down, you know, profusely. ثُمَّ شَقَقْنَا الأَرْضَ شَقًّا then We tore the Earth open farm. فَأَنبَتْنَا فِيهَا حَبًّا 
and We caused the grain to to rise and to sprout from the earth. وَعِنَبًا وَقَضْبًا 
And حَبًّا also means crop to rise and for for vineyards to rise, grape to rise and قَضْبًا and large plants زَيْتُونًا and نَخْلا you guys know what زَيْتُونًا is? yeah. Olive and palm trees وَحَدَائِقَ غُلْبًا
And gardens that are overwhelming in their greenery, وَفَاكِهَةً  and all kinds of fruit وَأَبًّا and grass. مَّتَاعًا لَّكُمْ It is all provision for you, وَلِأَنْعَامِكُمْ and for all of your cattle. So all of this talk about food in the middle. Have you seen your food where it came from? And let's pretend it's not there for a moment. Let's pretend it's not there. What was the last thing that was said? Whenever He wants, He will raise him, and then he and he still hasn't done what he's supposed to do فَإِذَا جَاءَتِ الصَّاخَّةُ
Then, when the great cry comes. Isn't that the time when he's raised? So it went back to that subject. It's like continuous from there. So if it wasn't there, it would feel like it's one continuum. يَوْمَ يَفِرُّ الْمَرْءُ مِنْ أَخِيهِ The day on which a person will run from his brother, from his mother, from his father, from his spouse from his children. لِكُلِّ امْرِئٍ مِّنْهُمْ يَوْمَئِذٍ شَأْنٌ From every person that day, he will feel he's going to feel like he has no need of them, وُجُوهٌ يَوْمَئِذٍ مُّسْفِرَةٌ some faces will be lit on that day. ضَاحِكَةٌ مُّسْتَبْشِرَةٌ
They're going to be laughing. They're going to be congratulated, feeling congratulated. وَوُجُوهٌ يَوْمَئِذٍ عَلَيْهَا غَبَرَةٌ and other faces will have dust on them تَرْهَقُهَا قَتَرَةٌ 
that are going to you, you can see the smut that has overwhelmed them. Meaning like the black that comes from like burning metal and things like that, أُوْلَئِكَ هُمُ الْكَفَرَةُ الْفَجَرَةُ Those are the ultimately disbelieving, the rebellious, the sinful. This Surah the argument is, what's the food discussion doing there? And so I'd like to highlight that to you, what what is it doing there? It's clearly not obvious. Is that Is that understandable to everybody? That it's not obvious? right. now listen, the criticism was of an elite person who Allah first humbled by saying, How ungrateful can you be? قُتِلَ الإِنسَانُ مَا أَكْفَرَهُ And when you're told to contemplate on your food, then isn't that you're being told to be grateful? The second thing that was told to him was:
مِنْ أَيِّ شَيْءٍ خَلَقَهُ What were you made from? What were you made from? What was your origin? Okay, if you can't even ponder the origin of yourself, can you at least ponder the origin of what? Your food? Where did it come from? مِن نُّطْفَةٍ He was created from a fluid. And when you ponder your food, where did Allah begin its creation? What did He say? أَنَّا صَبَبْنَا الْمَاء صَبًّا That also began with a drop. Your creation is not that different from your food. If you can't ponder your own beginnings, think of the parallel between your beginnings and the beginnings of your food. It also came from a drop of water So then Allah says, uh, خَلَقَهُ فَقَدَّرَهُ From this water He created him and He, uh He rose him and put him through stages. What does He do with the plant? فَأَنبَتْنَا فِيهَا حَبًّا
He raises the plant. The plant is going through stages just like you went through stages and you were in the belly of your mother and the plant was in the belly of the earth. The Earth also gives birth, doesn't it? ثُمَّ السَّبِيلَ يَسَّرَهُ
Then the mother opened up and the baby came out. What does that say about the earth? ثُمَّ شَقَقْنَا الأَرْضَ شَقًّا
We tore the Earth open and it came out. Is it connected?
ثُمَّ أَمَاتَهُ فَأَقْبَرَهُ He says, then I'll give you death and I'll put you back in. The food is done what's left? when the orange is done, when the when the watermelon is done, what's left? the seeds and what happens to them? They're planted again. They're put in the ground
فَأَقْبَرَهُ and then when Allah wants what happens to those seeds? ثُمَّ إِذَا شَاء أَنشَرَهُ everything Allah said about this ungrateful human being He then made a case study of it from the food. Maybe you haven't thought about food when you think about resurrection. But now you will. This is وَيُعَلِّمُكُم مَّا لَمْ تَكُونُواْ تَعْلَمُونَ He teaches you what you couldn't have known yourselves. He teaches to contemplate things the way you were not capable of doing yourselves. Is that example clear? So that was our first case study, right? So when when somebody has the audacity to argue Yeah, it would have been better without it. Uh, no. This is that was extremely spiritually nourishing for one to acknowledge its presence before we go into Judgment Day and when the second life begins. Anyway, I'll quickly move on to the next example. And this example is Surah number 65 of the Koran. Surah at-Talaq. Surah of divorce. And Surah at-Talaq is let me tell you, altogether 12 Ayat So it's not a very long Surah but the Ayahs themselves are rather long, okay? And even though I won't translate the entire Surah for you, um, it's obvious there is up until the 7th Ayah which is majority of the surah, the last Ayat are shorter the seven up until the 7th Ayah, the only discussion is divorce. Obviously, it's called the Surah of what? Divorce. So it begins with يَاأَيُّهَا النَّبِيُّ إِذَا طَلَّقْتُمْ النِّسَاءَ فَطَلِّقُوهُنَّ لِعِدَّتِهِنَّ Prophet when you when you can basically teach the community when you divorce women divorce them until they're given time period. Until then, you have to provide for them. Make sure the time period is completed. Be mindful of Allah, your Master. Don't kick them out of your home their homes. And they shouldn't come out until also, إِلاَّ أَن يَأْتِينَ بِفَاحِشَةٍ مُّبَيِّنَةٍ unless they've done some really evil thing in that time. Maybe they had an affair during that time, even while they were in there, there Idda period. Then they don't have that right to stay in that home anymore. Those are Allah's limits. Whoever crosses those limits is wrong themselves. You don't know maybe Allah will create a new situation for them. He's telling those divorced people that, yes, you are no longer part of this household, and you're like, Where am I going to go after these three months? What's going to happen? And Allah says, لا تَدْرِي لَعَلَّ اللَّهَ يُحْدِثُ بَعْدَ ذَلِكَ أَمْرًا
You don't know maybe Allah will create a new situation for you. He'll create a new environment for you. Be hopeful. And when they reach their deadline فَأَمْسِكُوهُنَّ بِمَعْرُوفٍ أَوْ فَارِقُوهُنَّ بِمَعْرُوفٍ I ended up translating. It's okay. So when they when they get to the end of that deadline, hold onto them in a dignified way, take them back if you want. If in those three months you decided that it's worth keeping, you know, sticking it on the marriage, keep them back or let them go in a dignified way. Don't don't leave them in by humiliating them. وَأَشْهِدُوا ذَوَيْ عَدْلٍ مِّنكُمْ وَأَقِيمُوا الشَّهَادَةَ لِلَّهِ Bring two witnesses among you. Establish that witness for the sake of Allah. This is what you are being counseled to. مَن كَانَ يُؤْمِنُ بِاللَّهِ وَالْيَوْمِ الآخِرِ
Whoever would believe in Allah and the last day and whoever has Taqwa of Allah, Allah will make a way out for them. Whoever is conscious of Allah, then Allah talks about women that are old, too old that haven't had their their cycles yet. What should because there's the three months period is determined by the cycles, and they're not having cycles. So what should you do with them? And what should you with pregnant women that have been, uh, you know, divorced? Then they should finish their pregnancy period, and you should provide for the child. And how long should you provide for the child? And you shouldn't put yourself or anybody else in difficulty. Those are the Ayat, that's the conversation up until the 7th Ayah. Okay? And then all of a sudden, وَكَأَيِّن مِّن قَرْيَةٍ How many towns have there been عَتَتْ عَنْ أَمْرِ رَبِّهَا
That violated the command of their Master وَرُسُلِهِ and they violated the teachings  the commandments of His messengers فَحَاسَبْنَاهَا حِسَابًا شَدِيدًا
So We took them all to account with a severe accounting. وَعَذَّبْنَاهَا عَذَابًا نُّكْرًا
And We punished them in a way that is unheard of. فَذَاقَتْ وَبَالَ أَمْرِهَا
So they tasted the consequences of the decision they made وَكَانَ عَاقِبَةُ أَمْرِهَا خُسْرًا and the outcome of all of the decisions they made was in the end loss أَعَدَّ اللَّهُ لَهُمْ عَذَابًا شَدِيدًا
Allah prepared intense punishment for them فَاتَّقُوا اللَّهَ يَا أُولِي الأَلْبَابِ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا
So we have Taqwa of Allah people of sound minds who believe قَدْ أَنزَلَ اللَّهُ إِلَيْكُمْ ذِكْرًا
Allah has sent a reminder to you, especially to you. And that reminder has come to you by way of رَّسُولا يَتْلُو عَلَيْكُمْ آيَاتِ اللَّهِ مُبَيِّنَاتٍ
A messenger that recites the Ayat of Allah onto you that keeps clarifying لِّيُخْرِجَ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ   
So He may take those who believe and do good deeds out from: مِنَ الظُّلُمَاتِ إِلَى النُّورِ
from darknesses into light وَمَن يُؤْمِن بِاللَّهِ وَيَعْمَلْ صَالِحًا and whoever were to believe in Allah and do good deeds يُدْخِلْهُ جَنَّاتٍ تَجْرِي مِن تَحْتِهَا الأَنْهَارُ خَالِدِينَ فِيهَا He will enter them into gardens at the bottoms of which rivers are flowing. They'll stay in them forever. أَبَدًا قَدْ أَحْسَنَ اللَّهُ لَهُ رِزْقًا
for such a person. Allah has beautified provision for them. اللَّهُ الَّذِي خَلَقَ سَبْعَ سَمَاوَاتٍ
Allah's the One Who created Seven Skies وَمِنَ الأَرْضِ مِثْلَهُنَّ
and of the Earth He created seven like them يَتَنَزَّلُ الأَمْرُ بَيْنَهُنَّ The decision descends from within the seven skies through them. لِتَعْلَمُوا  
So that you could know: أَنَّ اللَّهَ عَلَى كُلِّ شَيْءٍ قَدِيرٌ
That Allah is in complete control and capable over all things وَأَنَّ اللَّهَ  
And that Allah قَدْ أَحَاطَ بِكُلِّ شَيْءٍ عِلْمًا قَدْ أَحَاطَ بِكُلِّ شَيْءٍ عِلْمًا
That Allah has encircled all things with His knowledge. All things are encompassed within Allah's knowledge. It seems nations being destroyed You better take warning. You better take your messenger seriously. And Allah sends His command from the seven heavens. Seems completely off topic from what? From divorce. What are nations being destroyed have to do with divorce? They are completely unrelated matters. Or are they? That's the issue. The most sacred relationship to Allah 'Azza wa jalla is actually the fundamental relationship He created humanity on the basis of, human beings were created with marriage. With Adam alaihisalam and Hawa salamun alaiha This is the first relationship. It is the foundation of all other relationships and how human beings form society and civilization. Allah, 'Azza wa jalla is basically teaching us here that when that most personal of relationships is not being not being regarded sacred, the way you come into it, and the way you come out of it is not being given its sacred due. And that becomes commonplace then such nations such are the nations that are headed down the path of destruction. You would also think otherwise that Kufr and Shirk and idol worship and killing people and all this other stuff. When nations did that, they were destroyed. But I mean messing around with not giving them Mahr or you know, the Idda or torturing the pregnant wife and not providing for her or whatever else. Come on, It's just a personal thing. It's not like it's not like Kufr and Shirk. Well, according to this Surah Allah says by the way, let me tell you how serious this divorce stuff is. Nations were destroyed when they rebelled against Allah. Do you understand what I'm saying? This is not a small thing. This is enough to get entire nations destroyed. This will be considered an act of rebellion against Allah, and His messengers and people before were very severely punished. And then just to get the point across, what does He say? فَاتَّقُوا اللَّهَ, which you've read so many times in the Koran, Have Taqwa. But, He adds, فَاتَّقُوا اللَّهَ يَا أُولِي الأَلْبَابِ Have Taqwa of Allah, people of sound minds of clear thought. What is Allah compelling people to do in this case? Think. Think why I'm saying this right now? Do you realize what I'm getting at? You cannot have Taqwa of Allah in this case until you connect what's been taught and you can't connect until you apply your minds. الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا 
And then he says, قَدْ أَنزَلَ اللَّهُ إِلَيْكُمْ ذِكْرًا This is the most remarkable piece. Allah has certainly sent a reminder to you. Wait, Allah said, towns were destroyed those who rebelled against the Prophets, those who:
 عَتَتْ عَنْ أَمْرِ رَبِّهَا Previous towns, were those believers or disbelievers? Those were disbelievers and usually in the Koran when Allah talks about 'Ad was destroyed, Thamud was destroyed, Fir'own was destroyed. Does He talk about them being destroyed? Who is He telling to take heed? Quraish. He's telling Quraish, Don't be like Fir'awn. Don't be like 'Ad. Don't be like Thamud. Allah doesn't refer to destroyed nations and say to the Muslims, by the way, watch out I'll destroy you. Who does He say that to? The disbelievers. Don't be like them. in this unique Surah He mentioned previous nations that are destroyed. And who is He warning? فَاتَّقُوا اللَّهَ يَا أُولِي الأَلْبَابِ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا قَدْ أَنزَلَ اللَّهُ إِلَيْكُمْ ذِكْرًا I'm telling you a reminder, you will not get destroyed by Shirk and Kufr and idol worship and disregard of prophets. Your destruction will be when you make a mockery of Allah's commandments and the place that you are should be most careful about is divorced. رَّسُولا يَتْلُو عَلَيْكُمْ آيَاتِ اللَّهِ مُبَيِّنَاتٍ a messenger who recites onto you the Ayat of Allah, making them abundantly clear which Ayat are being recited? by the way, the word of رَّسُولا  here deliberate. If you look at the beginning of the Surah:
 يَا أَيُّهَا النَّبِيُّ إِذَا طَلَّقْتُمُ النِّسَاء The Prophet was addressed. Now ذِكْرًا replaced with رَّسُولا يَتْلُو عَلَيْكُمْ آيَاتِ اللَّ Meaning these particular Ayat of Allah are bringing you out of darknesses into light and the good deeds highlighted in this Surah generally it's true, but specific to the Surah are the good deeds of avoiding the wrongdoing of the one you're divorcing or the one being divorced or the children involved, etcetera, etcetera. Okay, وَمَن يُؤْمِن بِاللَّهِ وَيَعْمَلْ صَالِحًا 
And all of that is all over the Koran. But what addition do you find here that seems deliberate?
قَدْ أَحْسَنَ اللَّهُ لَهُ رِزْقًا Allah has already beautified Rizq for him. For such a person, why is that important? Because when Talaq happens, what's divided? Rizq There's concern about where it's going to come from. Which is why previously in the same Surah وَمَن يَتَّقِ اللَّهَ يَجْعَل لَّهُ مَخْرَجًا
وَيَرْزُقْهُ مِنْ حَيْثُ لا يَحْتَسِبُ so by the end Allah gives hope to the one who is thinking they're losing Rizq that Allah will provide other kinds of Rizq and Rizq doesn't just mean money it means relationship. Who's gonna marry me now? Where am I gonna do? What am I gonna do? How am I going to raise my kids? Where is the Rizq going to come from? Not just in terms of, you know, money, but also relationships and support and other things. Right? So Allah gives the hope of better rizq. But perhaps the most interesting a lot اللَّهُ الَّذِي خَلَقَ سَبْعَ سَمَاوَاتٍ وَمِنَ الأَرْضِ وَمِنَ الأَرْضِ مِثْلَهُنَّ يَتَنَزَّلُ الأَمْرُ بَيْنَهُنَّ Have you ever heard before that the decision, like the couples were made in heaven? Mhm, Right. Allah decided that I'm going to marry this person in this country or whatever. And you know, when you're not married, you're like she's looking at the same full moon somewhere. I know you're out there. Allah has already made us a pair, you know? Or, you know, a guy gets married and, like, the first week of his marriage, is like, you know, Allah really does make the pairs, doesn't He? And she's like, Yes, He does, He does. And do all marriages last? No, divorce happens. And when it happens, either party says I thought the pair was made in heaven. Just why why am I going through this hell? if the pair was made in heaven Allah the end of Surah Talaq says, the decision comes from the 7th heaven. Not only of when two people will come together, but also when two people will go apart. The decision comes from the seventh heavens it comes through it. And why does it come? And if you're thinking, well, no, no, no. But wait, read the rest of the Ayah. So you can know that Allah puts a limit on all things Qadr ُمَنْ قََدَرَ عَلَيْهِ رِزْقَه Right. To put a limit on all things. Some decisions come. So you're reminded that nothing is forever because Allah puts limits on all things. I thought this was gonna be forever. Nope. Sometimes Allah decided otherwise. And how if Allah knew why did He let me get married to this person? If He already knew. questions like that arise. This is what the feelings are. And what does Allah say? وَأَنَّ اللَّهَ قَدْ أَحَاطَ بِكُلِّ شَيْءٍ عِلْمًا and Allah has encircled all things, Allah knew and you had to go through that experience that was part of your Rizq until a given time until the Qadr of Allah came the Qadr meaning the limit came and the decision descended. This was also part of the decree. Don't beat yourself up over it, okay. Gives you a new shade to the meaning of bringing people out of darknesses into light in the context of these Ayat لِّيُخْرِجَ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ مِنَ الظُّلُمَاتِ إِلَى النُّورِ Gives you new meaning to
قَدْ أَحْسَنَ اللَّهُ لَهُ رِزْقًا the language if you looked at these Ayat on their own. If you didn't connect them to Surah at-Talaq If these Ayat belonged to Surah Baqara, if these belonged to Surah Luqman. And you read previous nations were destroyed. A messenger has come to give you a clear message. Allah has decreed the seventh the decision from the seven heavens. Do these Ayat on their own make complete sense? They do. But are they teaching an entirely new, profound lesson in connection with the Ayat of Talaq? Yeah, absolutely. This is where you know he said Imam Hameeduddin Farahi he said, there are two things that happened with these Tanasubat There's Mahasil and there's Manafi'. There's beauty in them and there's benefit in them. There's a particular benefit for someone experiencing when is somebody going to recite Surah Talaq? When they're going through this crisis. They're gonna find Allah's guidance in this Surah that deals with that crisis, and they don't just want to hear this is Halal and this is Haram and this is Halal and this they need hope. They need something that will soften their heart because it's a difficult experience. So what does Allah do? Allah puts warning and then He puts hope by the end. you know, just on that subject قَدْ أَحْسَنَ اللَّهُ لَهُ رِزْقًا
It's remarkable is that example cleared everybody? second example, I'll come back to the the piece of the Ayah that I wanted to make reference to.
