Alhamdulillah. I mean, he was mine. Um, Ahmad Salam alaikum. So we're doing our fifth case study of apparently unrelated I got and how they are, in fact, related in a profound way. Um, this is the study case study of Merida. Arguably one of the last story is revealed in the Koran in the late, late modern period and much of it post conquest of Makkah. So it's the very tail end of the profits life similar to them. Some even argue that, um, You know, after the conquest of Makkah, there's only 50 or 60 days of the profits. I sometimes life. So there's not much after the revolution of this solo. So there's not much of the profits life left after the revelation of this era. In any case, the beginning of the sora. What you can tell is, um something rather strange. So that's important to address. It is the you can say, almost like the farewell address of the Koran to the OMA in the sort of historically speaking, the last of Allah's words to be given to humanity are in the Sahara. And yet the story begins. Yeah, you have Latina, um, a new alphabet code. Believers fulfill promises, binding agreements, covenants, contracts or telecom behemoth to an army llama. You decided to come home? Uh, that four legged animals, four legged cattle of all kinds, meaning domesticated animals have been made permissible for you to eat. Except for the ones that have been read on to you. Meaning the ones that you've been told you're not allowed to eat. Like like, you know, pigs, et cetera. Right on the hillside outside of you, making things halal by hunting them while you're in a state of the Haram meaning, animals are permissible for you to eat. Unless you're in a state of Graham, You're going for hajj. In that state, you're not allowed to slaughter animals or kill animals in the Laguna you read. Certainly a lot. He passes verdicts as he intends. Yeah, you're Latina in Manila. Hello, Sha Allah. Al Haram. Al Hadi. We'll call ahead. Well, I mean Al Bayt al Haram. Yeah. Good one. Where the hell do Estado don't Don't make permissible for yourselves violating the sacred rights or the sacred Shah and all of the sacred symbols of Allah. What are symbols of a lot? Uh, you know uh, Safa and Marwah are symbols of a lot, meaning those places remind you of great events in which a lot helped his servants so they become shot out of a lot of the word Shakira or what's in modern everybody. They say, Masha, Masha is a feeling shot are places you go to that that invoke certain feelings, like when you go to a machine another week. It brings about certain feelings when you see that all of the prophecies of them it brings about certain feelings. When you see the Kaaba, it brings about certain feelings. Those places are shot of Allah. Okay, so all I was saying, Don't make halal the shot parabola. What does that mean? The term halal and Haram is not permissible and impermissible. Hear what's being used here. What it's being used here for is Haram doesn't just mean not allowed. Haram also means sacred. Harman is also sacredness. So Al Masjid al Haram is not a forbidden machine. It's the secret machine, so the opposite of that is to violate the sanctity. So Harold is also to violate the sanctity of something that's sacred, something that's supposed to be Haram, meaning sacred don't make it, Holland. Meaning don't violated sanctity. Okay, so here, Lotte Lucia in Allah is saying don't violate the sanctity of all the symbols. That's what the expression is saying. Well, Bashar al Haram, nor violate the sanctity of the sacred month. Well, Hadiya Al Qaeda nor the animal that's supposed to be sacrificed, nor the animals that are that have already been sacrificed, nor the animal that are marked for sacrifice collide. Is this you know, bells and things like that. They would wrap around the neck of an animal. Some some animals are marked for sacred sacrifice. So don't mess with them. There, there, there for a specific purpose. Well, I mean Alberto el Haram, Al al Bayt al Haram. Nor those meaning don't fight with those that came peacefully to the sacred house. Yet to be married woman that came pursuing a favor from the rub from their master and to seek his contentment with the Hamilton Estado. And when you become halal, meaning you're no longer in Iran, which makes all things had gone When you become halal. Meaning here that that you were Haram before, but you were in Iran and now you're out of the Haram, which means you've become these things have become hello for you. You've opened it up, then you can go ahead and hunt. Well, I actually meant to come to a new Coleman and Saddam and Al Majid al Haram. And don't let the the animosity or the hatred you've developed towards a group of people that kept you from coming to the sacred house because Mark has not been conquered. It's yours. Now you're gonna run, run into people that used to stop you from praying or used to beat you up when you prayed or insulted you and your profit and you're gonna run into them. And now they're not in a position of power. Now they're subdued, and you're gonna run into them and to to do, don't let that hatred of you inside of you violate them. Don't let that happen with that. I want to talk to I will cooperate in good things and matters of piety and and consciousness of a lot. And don't cooperate with each other in sin and animosity. In other words, Hey, look, it's him. Remember what he did? Don't cooperate with each other and gang up against somebody now that you're in a position of power, Okay. What? Allah in Allah should be mindful of Allah. Certainly Allah is intense in taking vengeance. Now there seemed to be even though I am not. This is not my topic. My topic is I number 11. But why is this? One of the last one is being revealed. Talking first about what kind of animals When When can you eat and what kind of animals and and the the the the Hajj rituals and not beating up on people. Obviously, the mindset has now changed. We're no longer the subdued people where the people in power. The tone of this aura is not the tone of struggle against the oppressor. And one day a law will give justice. Now you're in the position of power to deliver justice as you please. So it's The tides have turned. And so in that position, first of all, a says the first thing you have to do is do right by the House of Allah. As a matter of fact, Koresh were moved from their position because they did wrong by the House of Allah. Now you're in the right position. You better observe the sanctity of this sacred land in all of its child. And you better not become exactly what your enemy was when they were in power. They oppressed you. You better not flip that equation now we're in power. We're going to oppress them. You better not do this. But then he says, Hurry! Metallic meta to a demo. All Americans agree that blood is Haram for you to consume. Um, the dead animal is Haram. The flesh of swine is Haram Al Hilali. Radiology be whatever has been sacrificed and other than the last name Wellman Harmonica. Well, no Cuda will mature. Idea. Well, Martita Martita, the animal that choked to death. The animal that was hunted down, you know, the the animal that got strangled, that's you know. And then when they got caught and died, the one that fell off a cliff and died, the one that was not not a is actually the the horn of an animal, you know, or antlers and things like that. So if another animal was injured by another animal and then it died that way, you're not allowed to eat them. Well, Makayla, Subaru Elem Elem Advocate. Um and whatever hunting dogs or other hunting creatures have eaten away, except for what you may have been able to sacrifice before it died. Like you see an animal, you see like a deer that was kind of half eaten by a lion or something like that. It's not dead yet, and you're able to slaughter it. Then you can eat it. But if it's already dead, then it's It's Haram now. Well, you know, so want to stock snowmobile islam dot com, Fisk and whatever may have been slaughtered on altars, meaning temples and things like that and that you caught you cast lots, meaning you. They used to do this back in the day. The Jabalia practice used to slaughter an animal, and then they used to have a lottery with the meat. And they had these rituals, these mythical rituals, that the old practice. So some of that might still be retained because it's a practice of the munchkins for centuries. So now I'm not saying that's gotta go. That's all. Gotta go immediately. Valley confiscate All of that is corruption. You better listen up. Luoma is a Latina CAFO Mindy Niccum. Today, those who disbelieved, meaning the courage who used to be in charge have no hope to come up against your religion again. They have lost all hope in their opposition to your dean. They have no position of power left for Latasha Marchiani. I'll come back to this later. Don't be afraid of them. Be afraid of me, Alya! McNulty Lacandona calm Today I have made my d my religion complete for you. Perfected for you well at Montreal equanimity and I have completed upon you my favor. What a little Islam, Medina and I'm I'm content for all of you with Islam as religion, from photography ready for mama, certain radio to Jonathan Littman. But even after all of these things that have made Haram, if anybody finds themselves forced in a situation that is female masa meaning there are starving to death right on, Right on with the Jonathan Littman. Not because they're inclining towards sin. Meaning you're heading towards a dead animal or some pork because I always wanted to try it. Let me just have no, no, no. Your life and death situation and you're about to starve to death. And you had some. Then it's okay for in a lot of photo. Rahim, Then Certainly a lot is forgiving. Merciful? Yes, Helena. Commander Helena home. Hello. Welcome to you. But they ask you what has been made available for them? Because the long list of Haram. Right? So they're like So what's hello, then? Mhm. Right. So then because, you know, when you list things that are, Haram, people, especially new Muslims, have a tendency. That's a lot of Haram. And it's all the stuff we used to do. So, like, what are we? What are we allowed to do? Hello. Says hello to everybody. Good and pure things have been made available for you. Well, I love to manage a Wadi Makkah, Libyan to Ala Moana Moana. And whatever you thought of the animals that cause injury meaning dogs. Michael Levine that your dog trained Kalb dog live to train a dog as you train them to Ala Moana Moana. You teach them notice to China for Arabic students, Even though it's a side note, Hana is a drama pronoun, right? And dogs are not a couple. It's suggesting that people develop a very intimate close relationship with dogs, especially dogs, that they train as little lights in the Koran. Okay. Anyway, so what? You treat your dogs to hunt down and stuff for the dog, hunted it down, Then you slaughtered it. Then you can eat it. A ra a Relax. Yeah. So remember. Oh, and here's what you trained dogs, right? Stuff for, like, trained dogs like you Is that even allowed me? Ma Lama. Kamala, you trained these dogs out of what a lot taught you. Mhm. Yep. Training animals is part of what? Divine inspiration? Uh huh. Where's Koran and where's our culture? Two different people see a dog. You should be like reciting like, you know, if you see a man like a dog behaving with his, uh, with his master and he says, Fetch or sit down and it observes, You're like, Wow, remember Kamala? That's what that is. That's an eye of the law, not in the stock for the law that's also had a lot. That's a mash Allah it is. Don't take this to extremes and then get a giant dog. And then it's licking your face does not look like you don't do that for me. I'm second small Ayala. He so eat whatever they capture for you. and pronounce the last name on it with the Kola. And Ella said, Uh huh. And be cautious of Allah. Certainly alive is quick to take account. So we went from what you're not allowed to eat during the, you know, the hajj season in Iran to now other things you're allowed to not eat two. Now the things you can eat, even use hunting dogs hunt stuff down and kill it. Just change your practices a little bit. Alabama. Hello, everybody. Today all good and pure things have been made permissible for you to, um a Latina. Hello, Lacombe And the food that was given to the of those who were given the book much before you, or rather, just those who were given the book is permissible for you to Alma com Hello, LA home and your meal is permissible for them. What that simply means is if they invite you to eat with them, go eat with them and you should invite them to eat with you. Okay, So if it was just about what you're allowed to eat, then the I would be just saying their food is okay for you, but it's saying their food is okay for you. And your food is okay for them. Which means you invite them, bring them to your home. Eat with them. Uh, well, maybe not and good and pure Family Women protected women from among the believing Well, Sonata Model Latina Hotel Kita and good and pure, dignified family Women of the people of the book have also been made. Hello for you being probably come from before the book that was given before you go to a potato, Munawar Gerona. When you give them their money, where their their compensations. Meaning you accept, give the proper dowry that is, of their accord. Uh, machinery. Llamosa Verheyen with the intention of bringing them into families, Not just to get your lusts out of the way we'll get er done, nor to keep them a secret. Friends Armagnac for Bill Imani And whoever would just believe in the faithful called Habitat family. Who then? They're good. They're whatever good they did has been seized of them. Well, who I feel are Latino history. And in the end, they are going to be from among the losers. Yeah, you have to come to me. Come to me. Would you have come, believers. When you stand up to pray, make sure you wash your head, your faces and your hands all the way up to the elbows with Julie. Come on, carbon and pass over your heads and your feet all the way up to the heels in Quantum Donovan when Quantum Donovan and if you were in a state of a great impurity, Fatah Hajrudin thoroughly purify yourselves. Meaning take a shower when quantum arda and if you've been sick, philosopher or you were traveling to have been committed to it or whatever you want to relieve yourselves, Muneeza or you were into intimate with women from Montezuma and you couldn't find any water. Fatima Musa. I don't even then seek out pure soil, meaning what's called Tomo demo actually means to seek. It means to seek. And so I am a Muslim. Sorry, don't even from Scooby Doo be ready. Come in who, then just pass over your faces and your hands from it manually. Do la la la La Jolla, Jolla does not at all intend to put you in harm's in difficulties way whether I can use to help calm. But a lot does intend to purify you. Well, you tell me no matter who you are, and so that he can complete his favor upon you not to come to school. And so you may be grateful. So so far, what do you have? You basically have? It seems like hajj rituals. Make sure you don't violate them. Don't Don't Don't, uh, you know, desecrate the symbols of a LA then you've got things you're allowed to eat and not eat. And some marriage rules what this all is. And then we'll do finishing touches on. We'll do nt. Um, um, all of this is basically finishing touches on Syria. It's the final, like embellishments of Islamic law, like stuff that was left out until more important things weren't dealt with. Now that you're able to deal with them now, why is that? In the beginning, I kept asking that question without answering it. Now that the enemy has been taken care of, now that there is no state of fear, now that there's those bigger concerns that they're going to eat us alive, all of that's taken care of. Now you can deal with these things that are the perfection and completion of your religion because quite honestly, if they're enemies outside the door with swords taken out and they're banging on your door, you're not going to ask. So do or die. Um, um, how does that work? Or if we're traveling and there's a dead animal, what are we supposed to? Those are massage oil for more convenient times. The opening of the Sura is telling you now you are inconvenient times, which is a profound lesson. Because if the OMA is finding itself in a state of emergency, then we shouldn't be discussing things that are discussions for convenient times. Public discourse is in accordance with what the public concern is. If the public concern is people losing their faith altogether, then the issue should not be nail Polish or length of beard. Those are not the issues to discuss right now. You personally want to seek that information. Go ahead. You want to find that stuff out for yourself? Go ahead. The hookah is not for it. The convention is not for it. That space is for what is the more pressing emergency. Because the more pressing emergencies have been dealt with. Koresh have been dealt with the Jewish tribes that were treasures have been dealt with. The outside enemy has been dealt with. Now these ions are coming and now lets us Now, today I'm perfecting and completing the religion, putting the finishing touches now, Islam, I'm happy with you. This is This is why those i author there. It's not like until you eat food, right? Islam is incomplete. Know this stuff could have waited and it needed to wait until other pressing matters. Is that clear to everybody? Okay, now what if that is clear now Because these finishing touches have been placed a lot, takes a step back and says to us, was he make mention of the favor of the law on you and the contract that the agreement that he bound you with that he changed you with what it's called When you had said we hear and we obey. Basically, these laws don't take them lightly. Your this is part of the covenant you originally took with Allah. What? Dracula in L A Hollywood video to salute, be conscious and mindful of Allah. Certainly Allah is knowledgeable of what lies inside of the chest. The nature of the chest. Yeah, you're Latina.

Those of you who believe stand upright and stand become those who stand firmly for the sake of Allah Testifying to justice Shahadat Gilchrist. Well, I actually meant to come to a common a lot to do and do not let your hatred of a group of people compel you to not do justice to be just who are the taco? That's the closer thing. That aqua What? Tequila? In a lot of time alone, be mindful of Allah. Allah has full awareness of what you're up to. Guadalajara Latina Amino, amino, Sally Hottie Amalfitano Adrenaline. A lot has promised those who believe and do good deeds that they're going to have forgiveness and great compensation with Latina ca photo because there will be a Latina has happened to him and those who disbelieved and lied against our IA Those are people of hell. Fire! Okay, so this is tonight I got that basically started with some finishing touches of Islam. Then it took a step back and said, this is part of the larger covenant God has taken from you and the principle that drives all of this is justice. Don't let your position of power in Islam now allow you to do injustice. Be mindful of a lot less the final authority over you. You're not the final authority just because you have power now, okay? And so remember that those who deny these eye out they're going to end up in hell. Fire. You don't want to become of them. Okay. Then comes the subject That seem to be what some Orientalists called. If the I was missing, it wouldn't have mattered. So let's pretend for the second day I was missing. Where do we go from here? To meet a carbon. Ismail will be coming home with natural carbon. We had taken a confident from the Israelites and we appointed among them 12 tribe leaders vocal Allahu in DeMarco. Angela had said to them, I'm with you. Is there a connection? Yeah, there's a connection. A lot has taken a covenant from you. Just like he took a covenant from the Israelites. Angela's made that promise to the Israelites. If you were to establish the prayer and give the zakat elemental beautifully Hassan in. If you fulfill your covenant prayers aka believing in the profits honoring a lot aiding, aiding the cause, giving a lot of good loan. Then I in return for an encore. Asiatic Um I'll bury your sins away from you and given to the head and heart, I'll enter you into gardens at the bottoms of which rivers flow from the valley. Come in, come to Sevilla. Whoever would disbelieve after that has gone away from the straight path from the even path. One more. I just You have a clue. If I beat him to Oklahoma and a home because they violated violated the covenant, We cursed them. We curse too. The Israelites. What's the connection? You better not violate the covenant. I will do the same with you as I did with the Israelites. You're not special because you're new well into Middle Eastern Attila hit Abdullah, You will not find a different way of dealing with as far as the law is concerned. A lot deals with the same same behavior the same way. There's no change. You don't get special status, so you better not do that. Basically, seems like everything is in flow. So what is? You know, What is the argument that I 11 could might as well be missing? What is I 11? Yeah, You had a Latina woman with Corona La Jolla Echo. Those of you believe make mention of a less favor upon you is Hamed Coleman and Rizzuto alaikum idea home When a group of when a When a nation was really vying to get their hands all the way to you they wanted to make They wanted to have their stranglehold reach you faca fa idea home and come and elapse kept their hands back from reaching you so they try to stretch their hands to choke You and Allah kept their hands pulled back They couldn't get to you Ooh la, la, la, la la And be mindful of Allah And believers only place their trust in LA It seems to be referring to a time when we were not in power reference to a time when the enemy almost got to us. What does that have to do with this is the question that was asked, What does this have to do with anything else? Here we have. The covenant is completed. Here are the laws. Don't be like the Israelites. All of that's logical. And if I wasn't in his argument, if it wasn't there, we wouldn't have known I agree. I agree. If it wasn't there, you and I would not have known. But just because if it wasn't there, you and I would not have known doesn't mean it's not profound. As a matter of fact, I started by saying, Well, usually McComb my alarm to go to the moon. All that teaches you what you couldn't possibly have known. I love put this drop of wisdom here for reasons that unless you ponder upon them, you wouldn't have known them. So for him to say for the Orientalist to say, well, its absence makes it unnecessary. Actually, it's the absence of something makes you unaware of its importance doesn't make it unnecessary. So let's explore what's going on here. The favor of a lot in this aura has been completed. Yes or no. Islam has been completed. Times are convenient or times of difficulty, times of convenience. Now listen carefully. The idea in question I am number 11 has two anchors. There's two phrases in it that allude to other parts of the Koran. Even I'm sure very brilliantly points this out. The first phrases. Yeah. Um, Latina among those of you who believe make mention of a last favor upon you. When Muslims heard this, I, especially those that were versed in the Koran, it took them immediately to an idea that belongs to the lab. So right, if you don't know about your job, here is a snippet. Muslims were in Medina Chorus have already fought two wars wars with the Muslims, and they have not been able to get rid of the problem of Islam. They come up with a final solution. What's the solution? They're going to get as many tribes as possible. Gather as many forces as they can, some say 10. Some say 12,000 of them gathered together and said, we're going to surround the entire city of Medina and invade the city and kill every man, woman and child and get rid of the problem of Islam once and for all. And the only thing that kept him out of Medina was the trench dug in the nick of time by the suggestion of Salman al Farsi. That's the only reason they weren't able to get into Medina. Otherwise, is Zara Phillips, our lab says is our caps are battling una Bella Luna that your eyes were like this staring at the forces and your hearts had reached up into the throat and you were having all kinds of thoughts about Allah. Finally, Captain Bill Noon was losing balance. Added to that then and they're believers were thoroughly tested and the earth beneath their feet was shaken. And not just seconds. Zero Zelzal in. That would be my friend Whitlock Zelzal Unshaded in. They were thoroughly, thoroughly shaken, so and there were some among them. Who said Ma, What? I've done a lot of Hula Hula hoop to align. His messenger promised us We're going to have the Roman Empire and the Persian Empire here. We can't even go relieve ourselves without without Spears being shot at us. This promise was nothing but deception. The phrase began, Yeah, you had a Latina woman with Corona La Jolla Cove. Identical to desire. If it comes down to Barcelona, Henry, how would you know that kind of era? Believers make reference to remember the favor of Allah on you and armies came to attack you. Not one army armies came to attack you, and we sent a wind against them and armies you couldn't even see to defend you and Allah was in full view of what was going on. Basically, they were camped outside, waiting for the Muslims to starve because you're gonna run out of food supplies. So they're waiting and waiting and waiting. They start running out of food supplies. It's expensive to feed an army, especially in the desert, where they're gonna get it from. And in the meantime, let's start causing wind storms in the in the desert and their camps start flipping over and fires are starting and people are getting sick. And some of the army said you know what? Yeah, thanks for the invite. We were going to get some free stuff out of this city looting, but we're out of here. One pulls out, the other pulls out what happens when one pulls out a trickle Effect trickle effective motivation fathers to leave, just like you know, when you're sitting in class and was like, I really want to leave. But I don't want to be the first one to leave because this is gonna look awkward. And then alhamdulillah, Alhamdulillah, someone lives. And this is the reason you choose to sit in the final roll of every class because then you don't have to wait for anyone. The teacher just looks this way. It looks back and then you you don't know, you know. But if you're in the first row, this is really like a subject like boom that's different. You're the closest to the teacher. You're really hard for you to just get away. But if you were to take that sacrifice, if you were to be the sacrificial lamb for the rest of the class and pack your back from the first row and walk out, that will encourage others to also start slipping out of the class. We understand. So so what I'm trying to get at is they one by one, start disappearing. This was the failure of the groups that were there to annihilate the Muslims once and for all. And it was pretty scary for the Muslims, too, because their hearts had reached into the throat. Lock himself says this. The other anchor in this aura is he says, Fox Alpha idea home uncle. He held their hands back from reaching. You remember that phrase in this area? This is a reference. It's an anchor directly tied to an IRA in social strata. certain fat, which is the occasion of her labia. Allah there says, Well, well, a decaf idea. Human camera idea. Come on Whom he is, the one who kept their hands from reaching you and your hands from reaching them. He kept a war all out war from breaking out. Remember that when the Rothman incident happened and there was all war about to break out in a lot held both parties back. So this is either a reference according to urban assured to a scab or two. What would I be? I would argue as Abdelhadi bia is one long string of events. It's not even two separate occasions. One is necessarily a domino effect leading to the other. And all of that is encapsulated in one phrase In this Sura, Allah says, Yeah, you have Latina avenue those of you who believe remember less favor on you when there's a group of people that were trying to get their hands to reach all of you and they their hands were outstretched all the way from Makkah to the doorsteps of Medina and the love hold their hands back from reaching you so far back that even when you went all the way to market. They couldn't strangle you. Remember those days. Now What's the What's the point of this? I hear Islam has just been completed. Victory has just come at Montreal economy. The favor has been completed unless says you cannot be grateful for the favor that has just been completed. If you for a moment forget what it took to get here, remember, Not too long ago you were in the opposite position, remember? Not too long ago. It wasn't you who came to Makkah and the thousands and took over MCA. Rather, courage came in the thousands to take over Medina. As a matter of fact, that Monica is like the job of MCA. We came in as a we came in. All kinds of tribes came Abu Sofyan was looking at different type of thing. I've never Who are these? Who are these? Who are these? Where all these tribes come from? And we all basically came and ran over Mark and we took it over. This is the equation flipped Elias saying in this idea, now that you're discussing these luxuries, these perfections of the dean, how to make sure you will do is correct. The young mom. What kind of meat you can eat, who you can marry? The fact that we're discussing things of normal times, not war times. Don't you forget what it took to get here. Don't you forget we had to go through a lot. A lot. Put you a lot a lot. Held them back from you quite a bit for you to be able to reach this stage. This is not because your victor's is not because you won this because of a lost favor on you. And so this is actually a lot, as I was teaching us a timeless lesson. Islam, the consciousness of Islam in the minds of the Muslims will not be because we observe the law of Islam. It will be because we observe the law of Islam as a final gift that was paid for by the sacrifices and the great favors of a lead that came before it. Look at the Koran, take a step back and look at the Koran. Because this is the last of the revelations, right? Look at the entire Koran and you'll find that the Koran is essentially a commentary on the profits life It's a kind of Sierra book. It's a kind of sealer book. If you said I just want the practical steps from the Koran, What to do, What not to do that would be. You can fit on one page. Hello. You can fit on one page. What are the beliefs that come from the Koran? Allah Messenger, afterlife profits. You can fit them on half a page. The information is just that much. What does the Koran make you do? It makes you relive the profits life from Allah's divine perspective that became an essential component of our relationship with Islam because of the Koran. Now that religion has come to its completion, don't forget what it took to get here. That timeless lesson is more important today than any other time today for us in most Islamic curricula in the world and the way we're raised, as Muslims were told, some stories this mother happened then or what happened? Things got bad in market. Then be my the prophet migrants or something. But it happened, and what happened there happened to be one. Here's Hodge. Here's voodoo. Here's Salah Done. There's your Islam. Have fun. Are we deeply connected to the struggle of the prophet size on them. No, and we're not able to connect with it because we're not connected with the narrative of the Koran itself, and that's an essential part of our identity. Don't lose that sense of identity. Also note that when Fatima happens and these I had come, there's a lot of new Muslims. What are Internet watchin? And these of watch have not seen a sub they have not seen, but they have not seen. They don't know what it took. You have to mention this stuff to them because they have no idea They need to know. It wasn't easy to get here that Allah did great deals of favors to get here, because if they only see Islam and convenient times, they might not realize what kind of sacrifice Islam actually demands. Now, if you understand that, then the connection to what is coming after also changes. Which nation did I mention after them? When did Ben Israel go through lots of terrible difficulties? Yep. Did Allah give them great gifts and then they were not able to live by those gifts, and we're not grateful, and I'll give them great difficulty after that. So now that you're in a state of great gifts at mom to Alec Unanimity, well, little Akumal, Islam Medina and you've made great sacrifices to get there. Don't squander this because a lot a lot was the one who held their hands back. And because you have to Guatemala and place your reliance on a lot, that's why you're in a state of safety. If that goes away, you're not going to be dealt with any differently than the Israelites were dealt with. Watch it mind the covenant. So it's a profound entry. It's a profound, profound entry, helping the believers realize that the favor of a lot that's been completed should not be the focus first. Actually, you can only appreciate that if you look at all the favors of a law before then that allowed us to get there. Okay, so that was our commentary on so that one of my great desires is to do a full study of subtle Merida in depth because it is, it's totally worth it. And, um, I'm not doing it because can you eat a look at that meat or not? That's not why I'm doing it because that's like the most important question for the right now is, Can we eat at McDonald's? Mm hmm. It's ridiculous.
