بسم الله والصلاة والسلام على رسول الله وعلى آله وصحبه أجمعين Now we begin our study of apparently unrelated aayaat and that's not only our first set of case studies I'll go through a few of these cases, but before I do, just some introductory comments are important. Inshallah, the first of them is that when you read the Quran, it's very clear that sometimes it's not obvious how aayaat are related to each other. Things are jumping from a topic that you were expecting to a topic that you did not expect at all. It will happen and we're going to look at those kinds of cases. But this is actually a part of Allah's wisdom, and Allah himself says... وَیُعَلِّمُكُم مَّا لَمۡ تَكُونُوا۟ تَعۡلَمُونَ He teaches you what you could not possibly have known yourselves. Part of that is two things that you did not think were connected. Only Allah could have known that they're connected. Only Allah could have drawn a link between them that teaches you wisdom. That's not something you could have discovered yourself. That's something only Allah could teach. Have you ever been in a class? Sometimes where a professor says, "I'm going to talk about something. You're not gonna see how it's related to the lesson until the end. Just bear with me." He's talking and you're like, "What's he? What's he getting at?" What's he getting at? What's he getting at?" And by the end you're like, "Oh, I get it." Does that happen? Well, that's the kind of trust you have to have in Allah as a teacher. When He switches from one topic to another, he's actually pushing you to think, "I put this here on purpose. I made this subject change on purpose. I want to see what you will find in this. To discover this." The other way we know for sure aayaat are absolutely related to each other, they're absolutely related to each other, is from the very beginning of the Quran in the al-Fatihah الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ الرَّحْمَٰنِ الرَّحِيمِ مَالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّينِ How many aayaat? Three ayaat. الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ
is one aayah. الرَّحْمَٰنِ الرَّحِيمِ
is two aayaat. مَالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّينِ 
is three aayaat But grammatically, how many sentences? It's one sentence. الرَّحْمَٰنِ الرَّحِيمِ begins by something that's necessarily connected to what came before. ٱلرَّحۡمَـٰنُ عَلَّمَ ٱلۡقُرۡءَانَ ٱلرَّحۡمَـٰنُ is mubtada. عَلَّمَ ٱلۡقُرۡءَانَ is khabr. It's one sentence. If it's one sentence, in any mind, one sentence is one idea. isn't it? One sentence is not two ideas. One sentence is one idea. And that one sentence is broken up into three aayaat, into two ayaat as if to say three ayaat go together to make how many? One idea. which means those aayaat are inseparable. Allah himself has given us many examples in the Quran to let us know that aayaat are inseparable. He says... فَوَیۡلࣱ لِّلۡمُصَلِّینَ "The worst, most terrible, kind of destruction shall fall upon those who pray." That's an aayah. When Allah (عَزَّ وَجَلَّ) says, "The worst destruction shall fall upon those who pray." An aayah by itself. It would be pretty bad if you were leading the salah and you said... أَرَءَیۡتَ ٱلَّذِی یُكَذِّبُ بِٱلدِّینِ فَذَ ٰ⁠لِكَ ٱلَّذِی یَدُعُّ ٱلۡیَتِیمَ وَلَا یَحُضُّ عَلَىٰ طَعَامِ ٱلۡمِسۡكِینِ فَوَیۡلࣱ لِّلۡمُصَلِّینَ أَللهُ أَكْبَر

"...pushes the orphan. But the worst of them are the ones who pray... ...Allahu Akbar!" You would have to know that that aayah is necessarily connected to what? the next aayah. You can't stop the aayah... ٱلَّذِینَ هُمۡ عَن صَلَاتِهِمۡ سَاهُونَ فَوَیۡلࣱ لِّلۡمُصَلِّینَ. ٱلَّذِینَ هُمۡ عَن صَلَاتِهِمۡ سَاهُونَ The kind of people who pray who are lackadaisical about their prayer, who show off when they pray, they are the worst of the worst. Okay? The people who have artificial religion are the worst of the worst. Okay? So that's in and of itself by design many places in the Quran are teaching us that an aayah cannot be looked at in isolation. And if that's the case of one or two or three aayaat, it's not for me to say, "Well, that's clearly here, but not everywhere. I'm going to apply that as a general rule... لِیَدَّبَّرُوۤا۟ ءَایَـٰتِهِ So they can contemplate His aayaat altogether the multiplicity of the aayaat." Similarly, you find in Surah Baqarah, Allah says... لَعَلَّكُمۡ تَتَفَكَّرُونَ "So you can think deeply." and the next aayah begins with... فِی ٱلدُّنۡیَا وَٱلۡـَٔاخِرَةِ You can think deeply about what? this life and. the next life. But it's not one aayaah, it's... لَعَلَّكُمۡ تَتَفَكَّرُونَ
is the end of one aayah فِی ٱلدُّنۡیَا وَٱلۡـَٔاخِرَةِ
is the next aayah, so they're connected to one another. These instances in the Quran are already screaming at us that there is a necessary, necessary connectivity in the Quran. Aayaat have to be understood each other. They have to be looked at in flow. Sometimes that flow Allah makes all too obvious. Sometimes He needs us to contemplate. He wants us to contemplate and reflect and and find it ourselves. There is, you know, Muntasir Mir in his book He quoted something from the Quran that I wouldn't, I'm not as comfortable quoting on the subject, but I'll mention it anyway. Uh, he talks about الۡمُقۡتَسِمِینَ ٱلۡمُقۡتَسِمِینَ are a group mentioned, I believe, in Surah al-Hijr the people who divide up The people who divide up. And there was, like 16 opinions. Who are these people who divide up?
Because they're critiscising the aayah Who are these الۡمُقۡتَسِمِینَ? Some said, because اِقتَسَمَ comes from قَسْم So these are people who took an oath. They will never accept Islam. Maybe it's those people. Maybe it's people who swore an oath to one another to hold each other to the false religion and not let go. Okay, the other side said, "No ٱلۡمُقۡتَسِمِینَ is probably those who divided up the religion." In other words, this part of the Quran, these pieces I like Because قِسْم also means "portion"... this portion of the Quran I like, this portion I don't like this portion agrees with the Bible, okay, This one doesn't agree with the Bible, not okay. Others said I like the surah, except this, this, and this part they want to do قِسْم of the Quran. تَقسِيم of the Quran. That's why they're called الۡمُقۡتَسِمِینَ So there were lots of different ways in which the word الۡمُقۡتَسِمِینَ was described. But then the next aayah says... ٱلَّذِینَ جَعَلُوا۟ ٱلۡقُرۡءَانَ عِضِینَ "They took the Quran and they broke it up into portions." They took the Quran and broke it into portions. Meaning, I'm gonna take this this piece, but I don't care about the rest of the pieces. And he, actually interestingly, cited it in his book on Coherence in the Quran, making the case for it, saying we shouldn't be those who break the Quran into portions The reason I'm not comfortable with that argument is because the original argument wasn't about this. The original argument was about people who want to accept parts of the message and not accept other parts of the message. Okay? in any case, now I'm going to share with you some cases of apparent non existence of coherence in the Quran. And the first case study that we're going to look at is Surah Abasa This is Surah 80 of the Quran And in aayah number 24 to 32 there seems to be a jump in the subject in order to help you understand that first, I'd like you to pay attention as I'm going to try to translate in easy language the entire surah, because it's a short surah. And then I'll highlight the part that seems to be jumping out of subject. Okay? So عَبَسَ وَتَوَلَّىٰ "He frowned and he turned away," أَنْ جَاءَهُ الْأَعْمَىٰ "That the blind one came to him." وَمَا يُدْرِيكَ لَعَلَّهُ يَزَّكَّىٰ "And what would give you any clue." Perhaps the blind one that came to him, perhaps he wanted to purify himself to become better. أَوْ يَذَّكَّرُ "Or he wanted to take some kind of reminder." فَتَنْفَعَهُ الذِّكْرَىٰ "Thus the reminder will be of benefit to him." أَمَّا مَنِ اسْتَغْنَىٰ "As for the one who feels like he has no need." So to the Prophet (صلى الله عليه وسلم) a blind person came. Abdullah ibn Um Makhtum came. The Prophet (صلى الله عليه وسلم) was kind of upset that he was interrupting a conversation. The conversation was being held with the leader of the Quraish. A VIP. So now the next aayaat are going to be about that VIP أَمَّا مَنِ اسْتَغْنَىٰ "As for the one who feels like he has no need." فَأَنْتَ لَهُ تَصَدَّىٰ "Then you're leaning towards him." You're inclined towards him. وَمَا عَلَيْكَ أَلَّا يَزَّكَّىٰ "And it's not your responsibility if he doesn't become a purified person." وَأَمَّا مَنْ جَاءَكَ يَسْعَىٰ "And as for the one who came to you running," وَهُوَ يَخْشَىٰ "And he's full of fear," فَأَنْتَ عَنْهُ تَلَهَّىٰ "And you're dismissing him." "You're distracted of him." Interestingly enough, he's blind, and yet he's running, which is highlighting his desperation to seek some benefit. كَلَّا... "No, no,"
 إِنَّهَا تَذْكِرَةٌ... "It is nothing but a powerful reminder." It certainly is a powerful reminder.
فَمَنْ شَاءَ ذَكَرَهُ "Whoever wants. Then they can make mention of it." "They can remember from it" فِي صُحُفٍ مُكَرَّمَةٍ...
 "Its origin is in dignified scriptures." مَرْفُوعَةٍ مُطَهَّرَةٍ...
"That are elevated and purified." بِأَيْدِي سَفَرَةٍ...
"At the hands of noble angels." كِرَامٍ بَرَرَةٍ...
"That are dignified and righteous." Why are you desperate to impress this VIP with the Quran? The Quran is higher than him. The Quran came from the seven heavens. He should be honored that he's even getting to hear it. So no, it's not at the service of him. He should be at the service of it. قُتِلَ الْإِنْسَانُ مَا أَكْفَرَهُ May the human being be killed? How ungrateful can he be? Who could that be a comment on? The leader that's there. How ungrateful are you? You're gonna talk like you don't need this message? You're gonna act like that? مِنْ أَيِّ شَيْءٍ خَلَقَهُ "What was he created from?" ٍمِنْ نُطْفَة...
"From a dirty fluid." خَلَقَهُ فَقَدَّرَهُ "He created him and he put him through stages." ثُمَّ السَّبِيلَ يَسَّرَهُ "Then he made the pathway easy for him," "The mother opened up and the baby came out." Allah is literally reminding that leader of Quraish that this is how I started you. From sperm. I was there when you came out bloodied out of your mother. ثُمَّ أَمَاتَهُ فَأَقْبَرَهُ The past tense suggests it will be in the future. Then He gave him death and put him in his grave." Also means then for sure, I'm gonna be giving you death. And I'm for sure. gonna be putting you in your grave. ثُمَّ إِذَا شَاءَ أَنْشَرَهُ "And then whenever He wants, He's going to bring him back to life again." Okay? 
كَلَّا لَمَّا يَقْضِ مَا أَمَرَهُ "No, no, no. He hasn't yet fulfilled what he was commanded to do. He hasn't met his prerequisites yet. He's still in defiance." So far, everything seems connected. Yes or no? Right, now listen. This is the part that's argued by Orientalists, that it's disconnected. Montgomery Watt literally says this is a mistake in the surah. فَلْيَنْظُرِ الْإِنْسَانُ إِلَىٰ طَعَامِهِ...
"Then the human being should take a good look at his food." أَنَّا صَبَبْنَا الْمَاءَ صَبًّا...
"That we caused water to pour down profusely." ثُمَّ شَقَقْنَا الْأَرْضَ شَقًّا...
"Then we tore the earth open." فَأَنْبَتْنَا فِيهَا حَبًّا...
"Then we caused the grain to rise and to sprout from the earth." وَعِنَبًا وَقَضْبًا "And for vineyards to rise." "For grapes to rise." وَقَضْبًا...
"And large plants." وَزَيْتُونًا وَنَخْلًا Do you guys know what زَيتُون is? Yeah. "And olives and palm trees." وَحَدَائِقَ غُلْبًا "And gardens that are overwhelming in their greenery." وَفَاكِهَةً...
"And all kinds of fruit," وَأَبًّا...
"And grass." مَتَاعًا لَكُمْ "It is all provisions for you." وَلِأَنْعَامِكُمْ...
"And for all of your cattle." So all of this talk about food in the middle Have you seen your food? Where it came from? And let's pretend it's not there for a moment. Let's pretend it's not there. What was the last thing that was said? Whenever He wants, He will raise him, and he still hasn't done what he's supposed to do. فَإِذَا جَاءَتِ الصَّاخَّةُ Then, when the great cry comes. Isn't that the time when he's raised? So it went back to that subject? It's like continuous from there So if it wasn't there, it would feel like it's one continuum. يَوْمَ يَفِرُّ الْمَرْءُ مِنْ أَخِيهِ "Heed the day on which a person will run from his brother, from his mother, from his father, from his spouse, from his children." لِكُلِّ امْرِئٍ مِنْهُمْ يَوْمَئِذٍ شَأْنٌ يُغْنِيهِ "From every person that day, he's gonna feel he has no need of them." وُجُوهٌ يَوْمَئِذٍ مُسْفِرَةٌ...
"Some faces will be lit on that day." ضَاحِكَةٌ مُسْتَبْشِرَةٌ "They're going to be laughing." "They're going to be congratulated, feeling congratulated." وَوُجُوهٌ يَوْمَئِذٍ عَلَيْهَا غَبَرَةٌ "And other faces will have dust on them." تَرْهَقُهَا قَتَرَةٌ...
"You can see the smut that has overwhelmed them." Meaning, like, the black that comes from, like, burning metal and things like that, أُولَٰئِكَ هُمُ الْكَفَرَةُ الْفَجَرَةُ "Those are the ultimately disbelieving, the rebellious, the sinful." This surah, the argument is what's the food discussion doing there? And so I'd like to highlight that to you. What is it doing there? It's clearly not obvious. Is that understandable to everybody? That it's not obvious, right? Now, listen. The criticism was of an elite person who Allah first humbled by saying, "How ungrateful can you be?" قُتِلَ الْإِنْسَانُ مَا أَكْفَرَهُ And when you're told to contemplate on your food, then isn't that you're being told to be grateful? The second thing that was told to him was...
مِنْ أَيِّ شَيْءٍ خَلَقَهُ "What were you made from?" "What were you made from? What was your origin?" Okay, if you can't even ponder the origin of yourself, can you at least ponder the origin of what? Your food? Where did it come from? مِنْ نُطْفَةٍ He was created from a fluid. And when you ponder your food, where did Allah begin its creation? What did he say? أَنَّا صَبَبْنَا الْمَاءَ صَبًّا That also began with a drop. Your creation is not that different from your food. If you can't ponder your own beginnings, think of the parallel between your beginnings and the beginnings of your food. It also came from a drop of water. So then Allah says, خَلَقَهُ فَقَدَّرَهُ From this water He created him and He rose him and He put him through stages. What does He do with the plant? فَأَنْبَتْنَا فِيهَا حَبًّا He raises the plant. The plant is going through stages just like you went through stages. And you were in the belly of your mother and the plant was in the belly of the Earth. The Earth also gives birth, doesn't it? ثُمَّ السَّبِيلَ يَسَّرَهُ... 
Then the mother opened up. And the baby came out. What does Allah say about the earth? ثُمَّ شَقَقْنَا الْأَرْضَ شَقًّا... 
"We tore the Earth open and it came out." Is it connected? ثُمَّ أَمَاتَهُ فَأَقْبَرَهُ He says, "Then I'll give you death and I'll put you back in." The food is done. What's left? When the orange is done? When the watermelon is done? What's left? The seeds. And what happens to them? They're planted again. They're put in the ground. فَأَقْبَرَهُ And then when Allah wants, what happens to those seeds? ثُمَّ إِذَا شَاءَ أَنْشَرَهُ Everything Allah said about this ungrateful human being He then made a case study of it from the food. Maybe you haven't thought about food when you think about resurrection. But now you will. This is an example of...
وَیُعَلِّمُكُم مَّا لَمۡ تَكُونُوا۟ تَعۡلَمُونَ "He teaches you what you couldn't have known yourselves." He teaches to contemplate things the way you were not capable of doing yourselves. Is that example clear? So that was our first case study, right? So when somebody has the audacity to argue... "Yeah, it would have been better without it." Uh, no. This is that was extremely spiritually nourishing, for one to acknowledge its presence before we go into Judgment Day and when the second life begins. Anyway, I'll quickly move on to the next example. And this example is surah number 65 of the Quran. Surah al-Talaq The Surah of Divorce. And Surah al-Talaq Is, let me tell you, altogether 12 aayaat. So it's not a very long surah, but the aayahs themselves are rather long, okay? And even though I won't translate the entire surah for you, um, it's obvious There is up until the 7th aayah which is majority of the surah. The last aayaat are shorter Up until the 7th aayah The only discussion is divorce. Obviously, it's called the surah of what? Divorce. So it begins with... يَا أَيُّهَا النَّبِيُّ إِذَا طَلَّقْتُمُ النِّسَاءَ فَطَلِّقُوهُنَّ لِعِدَّتِهِنَّ "Prophet, teach the community when you divorce women, divorce them until they're given time, period. Until then, you have to provide for them. Make sure the time period is completed. Be mindful of Allah your master. Don't kick them out of your home, their homes. And they shouldn't come out also. إِلَّا أَنْ يَأْتِينَ بِفَاحِشَةٍ مُبَيِّنَةٍ Unless they've done some really evil thing in that time. Maybe they had an affair during that time, even while they were in their, their iddah period. Then they don't have that right to stay in that home anymore. Those are Allah's limits. Whoever crosses those limits has ruined themselves. You don't know, maybe Allah will create a new situation for them. He's telling those divorce people that, yes, you are no longer part of this household and you're like, "Where am I going to go after these three months?" "What's going to happen?" And Allah says, لَا تَدْرِي لَعَلَّ اللَّهَ يُحْدِثُ بَعْدَ ذَٰلِكَ أَمْرًا "You don't know, maybe Allah will create a new situation for you." He'll create a new environment for you. Be hopeful. And when they reach their deadline,
فَأَمْسِكُوهُنَّ بِمَعْرُوفٍ أَوْ فَارِقُوهُنَّ بِمَعْرُوفٍ I ended up translating. It's okay. So when they when they get to the end of that deadline, hold onto them in a dignified way. Take them back if you want. If in those three months you decided that it's worth keeping, you know, sticking it out of the marriage, keep them back or let them go in a dignified way. Don't leave them in by humiliating them. وَأَشْهِدُوا ذَوَيْ عَدْلٍ مِنْكُمْ وَأَقِيمُوا الشَّهَادَةَ لِلَّهِ "Bring two witnesses among you." "Establish that witness for the sake of Allah." "This is what you are being counselled to." مَنْ كَانَ يُؤْمِنُ بِاللَّهِ وَالْيَوْمِ الْآخِرِ "Whoever would believe in Allah and the last day, and whoever has taqwa of Allah, Allah will make a way out for them." Whoever is conscious of Allah. Then Allah talks about women that are old, too old that haven't had their their cycles yet. Because there's the three month period, which is determined by the cycles and they're not having cycles. So what should you do with them? And what should you do with pregnant women that have been, you know, divorced? Then they should finish their pregnancy period, and you should provide for the child. And how long should you provide for the child? And you shouldn't put yourself or anybody else in difficulty. Those are the aayaat. That's the conversation. Up until the 7th aayah. Okay. And then all of a sudden, 
وَكَأَيِّنْ مِنْ قَرْيَةٍ "How many towns have there been عَتَتْ عَنْ أَمْرِ رَبِّهَا...
"That violated the command of their master." وَرُسُلِهِ "And they violated the teachings, the commandments of his messengers." فَحَاسَبْنَاهَا حِسَابًا شَدِيدًا "And so we took them all to account with a severe accounting." وَعَذَّبْنَاهَا عَذَابًا نُكْرًا "And we punished them in a way that is unheard of." فَذَاقَتْ وَبَالَ أَمْرِهَا "So they tasted the consequences of the decision they made." وَكَانَ عَاقِبَةُ أَمْرِهَا خُسْرًا "And the outcome of all of the decisions they made was in the end loss." أَعَدَّ اللَّهُ لَهُمْ عَذَابًا شَدِيدًا "Allah prepared intense punishment for them." فَاتَّقُوا اللَّهَ يَا أُولِي الْأَلْبَابِ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا "So have taqwa of Allah." "People of sound minds who believe." قَدْ أَنْزَلَ اللَّهُ إِلَيْكُمْ ذِكْرًا "Allah has sent a reminder to you, especially to you." "And that reminder has come to you by way of..." رَسُولًا يَتْلُو عَلَيْكُمْ آيَاتِ اللَّهِ مُبَيِّنَاتٍ "A messenger that recites the aayaat of Allah onto you that keep clarifying." لِيُخْرِجَ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ "So He may take those who believe and do good deeds out from..." مِنَ الظُّلُمَاتِ إِلَى النُّورِ "...from darknesses into light." وَمَنْ يُؤْمِنْ بِاللَّهِ وَيَعْمَلْ صَالِحًا "And whoever were to believe in Allah and do good deeds..." يُدْخِلْهُ جَنَّاتٍ تَجْرِي مِنْ تَحْتِهَا الْأَنْهَارُ خَالِدِينَ فِيهَا "He will enter them into gardens at the bottoms of which rivers are flowing." "They will stay in there forever." أَبَدًا ۖ قَدْ أَحْسَنَ اللَّهُ لَهُ رِزْقًا "For such a person, Allah has beautified provisions for them." اللَّهُ الَّذِي خَلَقَ سَبْعَ سَمَاوَاتٍ "Allah is the one who created seven skies." وَمِنَ الْأَرْضِ مِثْلَهُنَّ "And of the earth He created seven like them." يَتَنَزَّلُ الْأَمْرُ بَيْنَهُنَّ "The decision descends from within the seven skies." "Through them." لِتَعْلَمُوا "So that you could know..." أَنَّ اللَّهَ عَلَىٰ كُلِّ شَيْءٍ قَدِيرٌ "...that Allah is in complete control and capable over all things." وَأَنَّ اللَّهَ "And that Allah..." قَدْ أَحَاطَ بِكُلِّ شَيْءٍ عِلْمًا "...has encircled all things with his knowledge." All things are encompassed within Allah's knowledge. It seems nations being destroyed, you better take warning, you better take your messenger seriously, and Allah sends his command from the seven heavens seems completely off topic from what? From divorce. What are nations being destroyed have to do with divorce? They are completely unrelated matters. Or are they? That's the issue. The most sacred relationship to Allah (عَزَّ وجَلَّ) is actually the fundamental relationship he created humanity on the basis of. Human beings were created with marriage. With Adam (عَلَيهِ الصَلَاةُ وَسَّلَام) This is the first relationship. It is the foundation of all other relationships and how human beings form society and civilization. Allah (عَزَّ وجَلَّ) is basically teaching us here that when that most personal of relationships is not being regarded sacred, the way you come into it and the way you come out of it is not being given its sacred due, and that becomes commonplace, then such nations. such are the nations that are headed down the path of destruction. You would also think, otherwise, that kufr, and shirk idol worship, and killing people, and all this other stuff when nations did that, they were destroyed. But I mean messing around with not giving them mahr or, you know, the iddah, or torturing the pregnant wife and not providing for her or whatever else come on, that's just a personal thing. It's not like it's not like kufr and shirk. Well, according to this surah, Allah says, "By the way, let me tell you how serious this divorce stuff is. Nations were destroyed when they rebelled against Allah. Do you understand what I'm saying? This is not a small thing. This is enough to get entire nations destroyed. This will be considered an act of rebellion against Allah, and His messengers and people before were very severely punished." And then just to get the point across, what does He say? فَٱتَّقُوا۟ ٱللَّهَ... which you have read so many times in the Quran. "Have taqwa of Allah." But he adds... فَاتَّقُوا اللَّهَ يَا أُولِي الْأَلْبَابِ "Have taqwa of Allah, people of sound minds." of clear thought. What is Allah compelling people to do in this case? Think, think why I'm saying this right now. Do you realize what I'm getting at? You cannot have taqwa of Allah in this case until you connect what's been taught. and you can't connect until you apply your minds. الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا And then He says... قَدْ أَنْزَلَ اللَّهُ إِلَيْكُمْ ذِكْرًا This is the most remarkable piece. "Allah has certainly sent a reminder to you." Wait, Allah said towns were destroyed, those who rebelled against the prophets, those who عَتَتْ عَنْ أَمْرِ رَبِّهَا previous towns, were those believers or disbelievers? Those were disbelievers. and usually in the Quran when Allah talks about Aad was destroyed, Thamud was destroyed, Firaun was destroyed Does he talk about them being destroyed? Who is he telling to take heed? Quraish. He's telling Quraish, don't be like Firaun. Don't be like Aad. Don't be like Thamud. Allah doesn't refer to destroyed nations and say to the Muslims, "By the way, watch out I'll destroy you." Who does he say that to? The disbelievers. Don't be like them. In this unique surah He mentioned previous nations that are destroyed. And who is He Warning? فَاتَّقُوا اللَّهَ يَا أُولِي الْأَلْبَابِ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا ۚ قَدْ أَنْزَلَ اللَّهُ إِلَيْكُمْ ذِكْرًا "I'm telling you a reminder. You will not get destroyed by shirk, and kufr, and idol worship and disregard of prophets. Your destruction will be when you make a mockery of Allah's commandments and the place that you should be most careful about is divorce." رَسُولًا يَتْلُو عَلَيْكُمْ آيَاتِ اللَّهِ مُبَيِّنَاتٍ "A messenger who recites onto you the aayaat of Allah making them abundantly clear." Which aayaat are being recited? By the way, the word of "رَسُزلًا" in here. Deliberate. If you look at the beginning of the surah... يَا أَيُّهَا النَّبِيُّ إِذَا طَلَّقْتُمُ النِّسَاءَ The Prophet was addressed. Now "ذِكْرًا" replaced with "رَسُوْلًا" يَتْلُو عَلَيْكُمْ آيَاتِ اللَّهِ Meaning these particular aayaat of Allah are bringing you out of darknesses into light. and the good deeds highlighted in this surah, generally it's true, but specific to the surah are the good deeds of avoiding the wrongdoing of the one you're divorcing, or the one being divorced, or the children involved, etcetera, etcetera. Okay? وَمَنْ يُؤْمِنْ بِاللَّهِ وَيَعْمَلْ صَالِحًا All of that is all over the Quran. But what addition do you find here that seems deliberate? قَدْ أَحْسَنَ اللَّهُ لَهُ رِزْقًا "Allah has already beautified rizq for him." "For such a person." Why is that important? Because when talaq happens, what's divided? Rizq. There's concern about where it's going to come from, Which is why previously in the same surah وَمَنْ يَتَّقِ اللَّهَ يَجْعَلْ لَهُ مَخْرَجًا وَيَرْزُقْهُ مِنْ حَيْثُ لَا يَحْتَسِبُ So, by the end, Allah gives hope to the one who is thinking they're losing rizq That Allah will provide other kinds of rizq. And this doesn't just mean money. It means relationships. Who's gonna marry me now? What am I gonna do? What am I gonna do? How am I going to raise my kids? Where is the rizq going to come from? Not just in terms of, you know, money, but also relationships and support and other things. Right? So Allah gives the hope of better rizq. But perhaps the most interesting... اللَّهُ الَّذِي خَلَقَ سَبْعَ سَمَاوَاتٍ وَمِنَ الْأَرْضِ مِثْلَهُنَّ يَتَنَزَّلُ الْأَمْرُ بَيْنَهُنَّ Have you ever heard before that the decision, like the couples, were made in heaven? Right? Allah decided that I'm going to marry this person in this country or whatever. And you know, when you're not married, you're like, "She's looking at the same full moon somewhere. I know you're out there. Allah has already made us appear." You know? Or, you know, a guy gets married and, like, the first week of his marriage, is like, you know, "Allah really does make the pairs, doesn't he?" And she's like, "Yes, he does. He does." And do all marriages last? No, divorce happens. And when it happens, either party says, "I thought the pair was made in heaven." "Just why am I going through this hell?" "If the pair was made in heaven?" Allah by the end of Surah al-Talaq says the decision comes from the seventh heaven. Not only when two people will come together, but also when two people will come apart. The decision comes from the seven heavens. It comes through. And why does it come? And if you're thinking "Well, no, no, no." But what? Read the rest of the aayah. So you can know that Allah puts a limit on all things قَدْر مَنْ قُدِرَ عَلَيْهِ Right? To put a limit on all things. Some decisions come so you're reminded that nothing is forever because Allah puts limits on all things. "I thought this was gonna be forever." Nope. Sometimes Allah decided otherwise "And how if Allah knew Why did He let me get married to this person? If Allah already knew?" Questions like that arise. This is what the feelings are. And what does Allah say? وَأَنَّ اللَّهَ قَدْ أَحَاطَ بِكُلِّ شَيْءٍ عِلْمًا "And Allah has encircled all things in His knowledge" Allah knew and you have to go through that experience. That was part of your rizq. Until a given time. Until the qadr of Allah came, the limit came, and the decision descended. This was also part of the decree. Don't beat yourself up over it, okay? Gives you a new shade to the meaning of bringing people out of darknesses into light in the context of these aayaat. لِيُخْرِجَ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ مِنَ الظُّلُمَاتِ إِلَى النُّورِ Gives you new meaning to... قَدْ أَحْسَنَ اللَّهُ لَهُ رِزْقًا The language If you looked at these aayaat on their own. If you didn't connect them to Surah al-Talaq. If these aayaat belonged to Surah al-Baqarah. If these aayaat belonged to Surah Luqman And you read, previous nations were destroyed A messenger has come to give you a clear message. Allah has decreed the the decision from the seven heavens. Do these aayaat on their own make complete sense? They do. But are they teaching an entirely new profound lesson in connection with the aayaat of Talaq? Yeah, absolutely. This is where, you know, he said Maulana Hamiduddin Farahi said there are two things that happened with these aayaat. There's مَحَاسِن and there's مَنَافِع. There's beauty in them. And there's benefit in them. There's particular benefit for someone experiencing When is somebody going to recite Surah al-Talaq? When they're going through this crisis? They're going to find Allah's guidance in the surah that deals with that crisis. And they don't just want to hear, "This is halal, and this is haram, and this is halal and this..." They need hope! They need something that will soften their heart because it's a difficult experience. So what does Allah do? Allah puts warning, and then he puts hope by the end.
