اَلْحَمْدُ لِلَّٰهِ وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى رَسُولِ اللهِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ اَجْمَعِينَ
اَمَّا بَعْدُ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم وَرَحْمَةُ اللهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ We're going to try to understand a structural analysis of Surah an-Nūr Uh, it's one of the more complicated structures in the Qur'ān, and I wanted to especially highlight it to show you that it's not not not that every Surah has the same kind of pattern or structure or symmetry. They they have their own patterns. The Qur'ān cannot be caged to one system. Okay, so you don't come to a Surah assuming it's all going to be symmetrical the way that another Surah was, as a matter of fact in whatever Surahs I've tried to understand the structure of they're arranged, I've reached about 30 Surahs 30-35 Surahs in which I've done some structural analysis may be more, um, I've seen that there are multiple kinds of patterns, and not all of them can be reduced to a kind of symmetry. But there still are some pretty remarkable patterns. One of the things you have to observe, at least the most common trends that I've seen are there are elements of symmetry and there are elements of parallels, and I'll explain the difference visually as you'll see Inshallahu Ta'ala So we're talking about Surat an-Nūr and it's the only Surah in the Qur'ān that begins by describing itself as a Surah, and that's kind of, in a literary sense, pretty interesting, because the word Surah means the outer protective walls of the city. And it's interesting to note that the opening of this Surah I'm building a wall and the closing of this Surah deal with two realities. They deal with protecting the society from social chaos, and at the end they deal with protecting society from political chaos. And let me explain what that means. Social order means that human beings have basic, fundamental morality. There's a family structure in society that there are ethics about how men and women interact with each other that, you know, and the most extreme example of social chaos is that people are doing the most shameless thing out in public. Okay, that they're doing lewd behavior and they're doing intimate behavior out in public in front of everybody. The Surah begins by protecting society from falling into that kind of chaos, and says, if such a thing happens there that at least four witnesses can see it, then there needs to be public punishments for that sort of thing, Okay, because if that becomes commonplace in society, then all kinds of crimes will become commonplace. Now we're living in a time when forget four witnesses because of the advent of things like, you know, rated movies and pornography and other things. That kind of stuff has become part of public experience normally, and you see the kind of chaos that's created. Crimes sexual kinds of crimes that happen in society now are more and more twisted than they've ever been in history. And there's more weird stuff and more bad things happening now than ever before. And it's directly related to that being normalized when that becomes a normal part of public experience then terrible consequences follow. A society may be politically stable. They have a constitution. They have a government. They have courts. They have police. They have clean streets, they have security. They have a standing army. Everything is in harmony and secure. But when they're socially falling apart, it's like a body that looks healthy on the outside. And there's cancer on the inside. Okay, on the other hand, you could be healthy on the outside inside, but you're injured on the outside, so societies need two things. They need social order and harmony, but they also need political order and harmony. So at the end of the Surah, Allah talks about the necessity for obeying the chain of command, Prophet ﷺ when he issues an order, especially in a state of war, you cannot be disobeying him. You have to fall in line, and that order needs to be maintained. Okay, because if that doesn't happen, then Medina will fall into chaos. You'll find just by comparison, you have in many Western societies great political stability, while at the same time you have terrible social chaos. And then you in the Muslim world, you find both social chaos and political instability. But in some, maybe some small village somewhere you'll find social harmony, even if there will be political chaos. But socially they will be harmony. At the level of family, there's peace and there's order, and there's goodness. Yet at the level of politics, there's some problems going on, right? So a healthy society protects its insides with these two borders. And what's the word for border? Surah. So literally the subject matter of the Surah at the beginning and the end the borders of this Surah are actually protective borders for society itself, which is pretty remarkable. Now. The second subject here is I'm not going to write it down for you, but I'll abbreviate it so you guys can take, you know, more detailed notes is that the hypocrites came up with a scheme to create social chaos in the Muslim community. Politically, militarily, we were doing well. We were actually starting to win battles. And this is some say after Ahzaab Some say before Ahzaab it probably is after Ahzaab, it looks like it's after Surat al-Ahzaab And after Surat al-Ahzaab there are some other smaller skirmishes, and Muslims have easy victories. The so politically we're doing pretty well. So the hypocrites came up with a scheme to demoralize the Muslim community socially, and they started a scandal against 'Aisha, radiallahu 'anha. Okay, so this was an attempt to sabotage

socially. And after Allah discusses the sabotage attempt and how to deal with it He gives us counsel. This is moving forward how you're going to deal with this kind of problem. Okay. What was the intention behind that sabotage effort? To create social chaos, to demoralize the Muslim community. Allah 'azza wa jalla then revealed that beyond just this idea of slander that can create lewdness and shamelessness in society. There are other things you must put in place to protect society from falling into chaos. So He gave us three bits of advice meaning when you go to somebody's house, make sure you don't enter the house without seeking permission, okay? And go at a time when you're actually wanted. Don't show up to somebody's house at 1AM Don't show up to somebody's house if the husband's at work and it's 1 PM in the afternoon, etc. حَتَّى تَسْتَأْنِسُوا 
 until you are actually wanted. Okay? And don't enter until you're there at a wanted time, and you seek proper permission. This will prevent, you know, illicit relationships from happening. Evil thoughts from happening, etc. Okay, Then He says to the men and women, lower your eyes and cover. Its commonly understood that women should cover because men can't control their eyes. Okay, that is not the message of the Surah at all. The message of the Surah, in brief, is that men, their biggest spiritual challenge is protecting their eyes and women their biggest spiritual challenge is hiding their beauty like the worldly thing that's on the mind of a man the most is not guarding his eyes, looking at the wrong thing, and the worldly thing that satisfies the woman the most is looking beautiful. In the absence of no one. In the absence of any man, she's going to an all girls party. She has this, and Allah describes that that's something put in her even when she was a baby أَوَمَن يُنَشَّؤُاْ فِى ٱلْحِلْيَةِ وَهُوَ فِى ٱلْخِصَامِ غَيْرُ مُبِينٍۢ right? So He actually argues that these are the biggest worldly distractions from your spiritual progress. For this, men have a different distraction. Women have a different distraction, and you must protect yourselves from it. Okay, anyway, then He says, the third bit of social order and that is young people encourage young people to get married. You can see here also, there's a progression. The extreme case Zina happening in public, followed by there's less it's not so out. But even scandal spreading is pretty problematic. Deal with the scandal properly and make sure so you never get to a situation of scandal. Put these things in place. Put these mechanisms so it's a logical progression here. Okay, then Allah gave us one of the most beautiful passages in the Qur'ān. اللَّهُ نُورُ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالأَرْضِ the passage of light, light and darkness. And this passage is basically describing the heart as something that is protected inside of a niche, a chamber. And that chamber that looks like, you know, the ancient in the ancient walls, ancient homes that you put a lamp inside an indent and that was arched so that the light could spread further. And that arch looks very much like the rib cage. Right? So that's deliberate. Allah is using that imagery to say this, you have an arch inside you and there's a lamp inside it, and the lamp inside this is what? Your heart and you have to keep the glass of it clean so that the light can spread, and the glass of it clean is an imagery for what? The heart being pure and it has pure oil inside it, which is the Ruh Allah gave you. And then when light comes from the outside, a match comes from the outside. It lights up, light upon light, which is the light that I gave you already and the light of revelation that comes and touches it. So it's the passage of spiritual illumination, right? It's a very powerful image that's painted in the Qur'ān, perhaps the most spiritual, deep, profound passage in the Qur'ān on the subject of the heart. If somebody wants to study the heart and the Qur'ān, they start here. Okay? Now this incredible passage is followed up with another passage that doesn't even sound like Madani Qur'ān. This passage says things like, Haven't you looked at the birds that are doing Tasbeeh of Allah? Have you seen the morning dew? Have you felt the dew of the morning or the clouds? So it's constantly saying, Haven't you seen? Haven't you seen? Haven't you seen? This is a passage on sight. And you can you see the logical connection between light and sight? Once your vision is clear, once you have light, you're truly able to see. when your heart has been cleansed then the way you see the world around you will change. And so there's a direct progression between light and the passage of sight that follows it okay After this, children should seek permission before they walk into the kid's parent's bedroom. Jump straight into children should seek permission before they walk into the kid's bedroom or the parents' bedroom, especially in the in certain times when they're supposed to be resting, late nights, in the siesta hour or whatever, they shouldn't be able to walk in in their privacy at any time. Okay, then, He says, By the way, permission corresponds to what permission? There's permissions to get into the house, and even inside their house, there are sets of permissions, so it's completing the subject of permissions. Then He says, old ladies don't have to cover. It's all good. They're on vacation. Mhm. What is this completing? the second subject. They had to cover, right? Well, here's completing it, by the way, not everyone does. But once we reach a certain age, He can comment on everyone and yeah, and then really interesting, He says, Uh, sit with people and socialize. And, He says, specifically deliberately He says, There's no harm if you sit in your homes, men and women together or separately. Okay, لَيْسَ عَلَيْكُمْ جُنَاحٌ أَن تَأْكُلُوا جَمِيعًا أَوْ أَشْتَاتًا there's no harm on you if you sat together and ate. You invited a friend's family, and if you're super Islamic, then you have a women's section and then it goes down, they go down a tunnel, and then there's an electric taser, and then you go behind that and you you throw food down the chute like a laundry chute so that they can get there. And then the wife, like, speaks into this pipe, the laundry pipe. We need more water and then, you know, and the husband delivers the like right there's that, um, or you have pandemonium, Allah says, When it comes to eating, it's OK if you sat together and ate or if you sat separately. If you're more comfortable separately, separately. If you want to sit together and eat Astaghfirullah No, no Astaghfirullah it's in the Qur'ān. Okay, you could do it. Okay, Now the benefit of saying that is because when people socialize and eat together, some 22 year old is sitting there mhm, and she's sitting and then their parents start talking and this and that and then what happens? Young people get married. Where else you're supposed to meet? You're supposed to meet in a safe environment. You're supposed to figure out something in a family setting, right? So Allah actually open Look at this was get young people married and here was do 'dawate'. You see a logical connection between the two? Subhanallah He He's saying, Look, if you don't provide a healthy place for families and friends to meet, then you're going to open the door for young people are going to do what they're gonna do. They're gonna meet, they're gonna socialize. But since you close the doors inside the safe space of the home, then that's going to happen at the university. It's going to happen at the park. It's going to happen at the movie theater. It's going to happen at the mall. It's gonna happen at the gym. It's gonna happen everywhere else. It's going to happen online, so provide that environment in a healthy place. It's a It's a profound, divine wisdom to protect from social chaos. How much are we in need of this stuff today? you know Then you find there's an attempt to deceive the Prophet ﷺ because, you know, we were still in a state of war. So some hypocrites would come and say, We hear and we obey. You've given this instruction for us to go to this particular location and scout or whatever. And when in a military setting you give instructions to go somewhere and fulfill the command, then not fulfilling that can actually cause the entire army serious damage. So this was actually a political scheme to sabotage the Muslim military efforts.

And that is then followed by a council on how to deal with those political efforts of sabotage.

You've got the two ends of the Surah meeting each other. You've got social sabotage, followed by council. And before the end, you've got political sabotage followed by council. You've got three sets of advice and paralleling those three sets of advice, you've got three sets of advice that complete them. And what lies in between is light and sight. Mm. And what's remarkable to me here especially is that the term Surah is used for what protects the outside of a city, and the passage of light, which is right in the center, is protecting the heart. Just like the outside walls protect the city. This rib cage protects the heart. Now this heart and this sight it's placed literally in the heart of this Surah. Why? Because if you look, everything else around in the Surah is actually laws. Everything else is guidelines, laws, practical steps, actions to take. And those acts will never, ever, ever be taken care of the way they should be, unless there's what? Unless there's light. Unless you see things clearly, unless the faith is at the center of it all, it is the only way by which the Laws of Islam will be observed. As a matter of fact, when lewdness is spread when shamelessness is spread, when political chaos has spread when social chaos has spread, then the problem is not addressing why women should wear hijab. And the problem is not why politicians should be fair or whatever, the problem is there's something missing in the hearts and the way, the way we see things and that needs to be addressed, and when that's addressed, its light will spread in every direction. Its light will illuminate the social, and it will illuminate the political it will illuminate all things. Okay, so this is the beautiful organization of Surat an-Nūr.
