الحمد لله رب العالمين
و الصلاة و السلام على سيّد الأنبياء و المرسلين
و على آله و صحبه أجمعين السلام عليك و رحمة الله و بركاته We're going to try to understand
a structural analysis of Sūrat al-Qāf rather. The 50th sūra of the Qur'ān. This sūra is going to be an opportunity for me to share with you also how some of the symmetrical composition works. Some of the more complex, symmetrical composition works. It's not like the three āyāt in the beginning are paralleled with the three āyāt at the end. It's not like that. Don't think of it in terms of number. Don't think of it in terms of wording. It's going to be in terms of subject matter. The parallels that happen or the mirrors that happen are in terms of subject matter. If you remember my discussion on Sūrat al-Nūr you saw that the beginning was mirrored by the end. Social versus political. But then there was the sabotage effort, followed by council. If you were mirroring that, you would find council followed, followed by sabotage effort. But you found a parallel sabotage effort, followed by counsel. So it had A - B on one end, and then again A - B on the other end. Not A - B on this end and then B - A on the other end, you understand? And similarly, what came in were three sets of permissions or three sets of regulations A, B and C. And then on the flip side was also instead of being C, B, and A, was still again A, B, and C. So those are parallels. Sometimes you find in the Qur'ān that they are mirrors. So it's what was in one order is reversed in the other order, and sometimes you find them in parallel order. Okay? So, Sūrat Qāf, let's begin one section at a time. Before we discuss its overall architecture. I've color coded them, so it's become a little bit easier for you to visualize. I'll be reading the Arabic, but I'll translate it for you so you can you can know what the message is about. ق وَالْقُرْآنِ الْمَجِيدِ بَلْ عَجِبُوا أَنْ جَاءَهُمْ مُنْذِرٌ مِنْهُمْ فَقَالَ الْكَافِرُونَ هَذَا شَيْءٌ عَجِيبٌ أَئِذَا مِتْنَا وَكُنَّا تُرَابًا ذَلِكَ رَجْعٌ بَعِيدٌ قَدْ عَلِمْنَا مَا تَنْقُصُ الأَرْضُ مِنْهُمْ وَعِنْدَنَا كِتَابٌ حَفِيظٌ بَلْ كَذَّبُوا بِالْحَقِّ لَمَّا جَاءَهُمْ فَهُمْ فِي أَمْرٍ مَرِيجٍ There are a few elements in this passage. One: Allāh is making-- drawing as evidence the Nobility and the Majesty of the Qur'ān. He's then saying that the disbelievers have two things to say. The number one, the first thing they have to say is they find it very strange. They find this entire message very strange. And then they add to what that strangeness is. 'Well, after we die and we're decayed how are we going to be brought back into a new life?' رَجْعٌ بَعِيْد.' Okay. you might think it's far fetched, but the earth is already taking away from you little by little. Meaning, your skin cells are
dying every day, and a little of you-- and every single day the
earth is pulling you into itself. And even after you die, the earth will start decaying you. And Allāh knows exactly what that decay is going to be. But it's the slow process of death that we are already a part of. That Allāh, 'azza wa jalla, makes reference to. قَدْ عَلِمْنَا مَا تَنْقُصُ الأَرْضُ مِنْهُمْ And even though that is decaying, and everything is getting lost, you're being lost into the earth. وَ عِنْدَنَا كِتَابٌ حَفِيظٌ We have a book that guards all of this. Physically, you may be lost; but it's still preserved in a book. And the truth is that they're just confused, and they're lying against this message. They're calling it a lie because of their doubts. be patient over what they say. نَحْنُ أَعْلَمُ بِمَا يَقُولُونَ We know what they say. So "saying" is mentioned twice, Just like what they said. There were two things that they said: They said "this is a strange thing" "We're going to die, how are we going to be brought back?" And Allāh refers to their saying twice and basically tells the Prophet ﷺ you need to be patient with whatever they're saying, and you will find patience in whatever they're saying by recognizing that I know what they're saying. نَحْنُ أَعْلَمُ بِمَا يَقُولُونَ وَمَا أَنْتَ عَلَيْهِمْ بِجَبَّارٍ Interestingly, also, that passage began with the Nobility, the Majesty of the Qur'ān. ق وَالْقُرْآنِ الْمَجِيدِ And you find the Qur'ān at the end passage again:
فَذَكِّرْ بِالْقُرْآنِ مَنْ يَخَافُ وَعِيدِ Remind with the Qur'ān whoever fears the Promise, the Threat. Interestingly also, the Majesty of the Qur'ān means you don't have to force anyone to acknowledge how powerful, how beautiful, how majestic it is. You don't take someone to the most beautiful architecture or the most incredible scene and say, 'Hey, come on, isn't it beautiful?' 'Tell me it's beautiful! Please tell me it's beautiful!' It speaks for itself. If you can't see it, that's your problem. That's not anybody else's problem. Okay? وَمَا أَنْتَ عَلَيْهِمْ بِجَبَّارٍ You're not there to force them. You're not there to force their hand to acknowledge the Majesty of the Qur'ān, because it's majestic. So it's actually furthering the notion of the Majesty of the Qur'ān. You notice that they said, ذَلِكَ رَجْعٌ بَعِيدٌ This is a far fetched return. And Allāh says, in response: وَاسْتَمِعْ يَوْمَ يُنَادِ الْمُنَادِي مِنْ مَكَانٍ قَرِيبٍ Listen for the day when the caller will call and he is really nearby. So ba'id (بعيد) is contrasted with--far is contrasted with near. Similarly there Allāh, 'azza wa jalla, described that slowly the earth is taking them away. You recall? يَوْمَ تَشَقَّقُ الأَرْضُ عَنْهُمْ سِرَاعًا What is (سُرْعَة)? The earth will spit them out real fast. It's slowly decaying them, but on that day, it will tear open and pull them out really quickly. They were questioning Resurrection, And Allāh  says I don't need to explain My power to resurrect to them. إِنَّا نَحْنُ نُحْيِي وَنُمِيتُ We're the ones who give life and give death. And basically the Prophet ﷺ says is told in response to all of their criticisms, وَسَبِّحْ بِحَمْدِ رَبِّكَ قَبْلَ طُلُوعِ الشَّمْسِ وَقَبْلَ الْغُرُوبِ You just continue to declare Allāh's perfection. You see how the opening of the sūra is completed is responded to by the end of this sūra, right? Let's go to the second discussion in this sūra. Allāh switches the subject to, okay, fine you're skeptical about Resurrection, but have you looked at the world around you with the eyes of faith? أَفَلَمْ يَنْظُرُوا إِلَى السَّمَاءِ فَوْقَهُمْ كَيْفَ بَنَيْنَاهَا وَزَيَّنَّاهَا وَمَا لَهَا مِنْ فُرُوجٍ Essentially, haven't they seen the perfection of the sky how it's been built, how it's been beautified, how it's got no blemishes in it. وَالأَرْضَ مَدَدْنَاهَا وَأَلْقَيْنَا فِيهَا رَوَاسِيَ وَأَنْبَتْنَا فِيهَا مِنْ كُلِّ زَوْجٍ بَهِيجٍ The earth that's been stretched out, the
mountains that have been placed in it, the sprouting of all kinds of colorful pairs of fruits and vegetations that come out of the earth. تَبْصِرَةً
And all of that is so you can take a good look, وَذِكْرَى لِكُلِّ عَبْدٍ مُنِيبٍ and as a Reminder--how can it be a reminder? For a slave that is coming back to Allāh, whose heart is coming back to Allāh? How is it coming? How should it bring you back? وَنَزَّلْنَا مِنْ السَّمَاءِ مَاءً مُبَارَكًا فَأَنْبَتْنَا بِهِ جَنَّاتٍ وَحَبَّ الْحَصِيدِ وَالنَّخْلَ بَاسِقَاتٍ لَهَا طَلْعٌ نَضِيدٌ
رِزْقًا لِلْعِبَادِ That We sent from the sky blessed water from the sky, by means of which gardens come out, crop comes out, palm trees that are outstretched, you know, uh, branches that extend. All of this is a provision for servants. وَأَحْيَيْنَا بِهِ بَلْدَةً مَيْتًا And by means of that water We give a dead land life again. And then He answers basically the first passage saying:
كَذَلِكَ الْخُرُوجُ That's exactly how Resurrection is going to happen. Observe reality around you. Observe these creations of the sky and the earth. And remind yourself that is how Resurrection will happen. But then Allāh addresses that maybe you-because they're so stubborn and so obnoxious they say, well, Allāh created a lot, He must be tired. So He's not going to create a second time. And so Allāh responds to that in the second last, which is just summarized in one āya, وَلَقَدْ خَلَقْنَا السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالأَرْضَ وَمَا بَيْنَهُمَا Doesn't that cover a summary of everything that I just explained to you? We created the skies, the earth, and whatever is between them. And then He says, and the first time I did it: فِي سِتَّةِ أَيَّامٍ وَمَا مَسَّنَا مِنْ لُغُوبٍ And We did it in six days and it did not hit Us with exhaustion. I'm not too tired to bring you back again. That will happen. The second passage, corresponding to the second last. You find then a switch in the sūra. كَذَّبَتْ قَبْلَهُمْ قَوْمُ نُوحٍ وَأَصْحَابُ الرَّسِّ وَثَمُودُ وَعَادٌ وَفِرْعَوْنُ وَإِخْوَانُ لُوطٍ وَأَصْحَابُ الأَيْكَةِ وَقَوْمُ تُبَّعٍ What are these? Previously destroyed nations, all of whom denied messengers. People of Nụḥ, Aṣḥāb al-Rass, The People of Rass, Thamūd, 'Ād, Fir'awn, the Brethren of Lūṭ, the people of 'Īka, the Nation of Tubba'. All of them. Allāh says, have I been exhausted by the creation the first time? You're just confused. And I know what whispers come to you. وَنَعْلَمُ مَا تُوَسْوِسُ بِهِ نَفْسُهُ We know what whispers hit the human being's inner self. But I'm closer to you than your vein, than your jugular vein. When He says this all it is contrasted directly in the third last passage. وَكَمْ أَهْلَكْنَا قَبْلَهُمْ مِنْ قَرْنٍ How many nations in the past did We destroy? What is that echoing? All the nations that were listed that were destroyed. هُمْ أَشَدُّ مِنْهُمْ بَطْشًا فَنَقَّبُوا فِي الْبِلاَدِ هَلْ مِنْ مَحِيصٍ They were much more powerful than the Quraysh are. And they made much more of an imprint in the land. But do you find anything left of them? And then He says, I love this,
إِنَّ فِي ذَلِكَ لَذِكْرَى لِمَنْ كَانَ لَهُ قَلْبٌ There's a powerful reminder in all of this for anyone who possesses a heart. On the flip side, we were told there is a spiritual crisis inside us. There's waswasa happening inside the nafs. yes, there is a nafs, there is an inner self, and there's constant whispers happening, pulling you into the wrong direction. But you have also been empowered with a heart that is capable of reminder, that's very powerful that can pull you away from all of that waswasa. لِمَنْ كَانَ لَهُ قَلْبٌ And how will you enforce that heart?
وَ أَلْقَى السَّمْعَ وَهُوَ شَهِيدٌ Who drops an ear, who listens carefully and as a result, what he witnesses changes. The view changes. You see the parallel between that section and this section, previous nations and then previous nations again. Then you come to the center of the sūra. The center of the sūra is its own architecture. It's it's own design. So it's like the three at the top and the three at the bottom. I've given you like an A - B - C, and I've given you a C -B  and A. That's the outer rim of the sūra. Now we're inside the heart of the sūra. Inside the heart of the sūra, there are two passages. One passage takes you from death all the way to Judgment Day. That's one passage. The second passage takes you-- contrasts the life in Hell with the life in Heaven. So death to Judgment Day is one scene, and then Hell and Heaven is the second scene. So I'm going to describe a little bit of the first scene to you, and I'll walk you through its translation. Just elements of its translation. إِذْ يَتَلَقَّى الْمُتَلَقِّيَانِ عَنْ الْيَمِينِ وَعَنْ الشِّمَالِ قَعِيدٌ مَا يَلْفِظُ مِنْ قَوْلٍ إِلاَّ لَدَيْهِ رَقِيبٌ عَتِيدٌ When the two meet. The two that were on either side of you meet. And not a word has ever gone by-- you've never said a single word, except that it hasn't been watched over, recorded. All of it's been captured. وَجَاءَتْ سَكْرَةُ الْمَوْتِ بِالْحَقِّ ذَلِكَ مَا كُنْتَ مِنْهُ تَحِيدُ The pangs of death, the drunken state of death, finally hit. And this is the thing you've been avoiding all along. See, I told you these records, when are they meeting? When the person is about to, or when they're hitting death. وَنُفِخَ فِي الصُّورِ And in the blink of an eye, the Horn is blown into. The Horn is blown into. What is this talking about? The Day of Judgment. ذَلِكَ يَوْمُ الْوَعِيدِ That is the day that you were threatened with. وَجَاءَتْ كُلُّ نَفْسٍ مَعَهَا سَائِقٌ وَشَهِيدٌ And every person is going to have with them someone who pushes them forward, and a witness with them. Details. This is the
dars on Sūrat al-Qāf, listen to it. لَقَدْ كُنْتَ فِي غَفْلَةٍ مِنْ هَذَا You used to be completely oblivious about all of this. You had no clue any of this was coming. فَكَشَفْنَا عَنْكَ غِطَاءَكَ So We've removed your covers for you. We've uncovered the reality for you. فَبَصَرُكَ الْيَوْمَ حَدِيدٌ Your vision today is ironclad. It's-- you see crystal clear now. وَقَالَ قَرِينُهُ And the devil that accompanied him his whole life says: هَذَا مَا لَدَيَّ عَتِيدٌ This is the one I brought with me, this bad one. أَلْقِيَا فِي جَهَنَّمَ Throw in Hell كُلَّ كَفَّارٍ عَنِيدٍ every ingrate, every stubborn one مَنَّاعٍ لِلْخَيْرِ throw into Hell everyone that prevented good. مُعْتَدٍ مُرِيبٍ The one who was crossing the lines and constantly making even others doubtful about the faith. الَّذِي جَعَلَ مَعَ اللَّهِ إِلَهًا آخَرَ Who put other gods besides Allāh, next to Allāh. فَأَلْقِيَاهُ فِي الْعَذَابِ الشَّدِيدِ Throw him into painful punishment. And this devil who says, 'Look at all this bad stuff he did, Ya Allāh throw him in Hell.' قَالَ قَرِينُهُ رَبَّنَا مَا أَطْغَيْتُهُ He says, 'By the way, Master, I didn't make him do it, okay?' وَلَكِنْ كَانَ فِي ضَلاَلٍ بَعِيدٍ 'He was lost on his own.' I mean, this minion of Shayṭān has been working on getting you into Hell all this time. So when he comes before Allah, he says, 'I need to finish my mission, and it's gonna be, I got him to do a lot of stuff, but no, no, not me!' 'He did it.' قَالَ لاَ تَخْتَصِمُوا لَدَيَّ Don't argue before Me. وَقَدْ قَدَّمْتُ إِلَيْكُمْ بِالْوَعِيدِ And the Warning has come to all of you. Meaning you and your devil were all warned, مَا يُبَدَّلُ الْقَوْلُ لَدَيَّ The word will not be changed in My presence. There is not going to be a different verdict now. وَمَا أَنَا بِظَلاَّمٍ لِلْعَبِيدِ And I'm not going to be oppressive to slaves. I'm not gonna do anybody wrong. Okay, this is passage-- mini-passage one in the center of the sūra. I want you to go back. The first item we studied was "not a word will go unrecorded". Do you remember that? And it is "every word is being watched". And the last āya of this passage says the word will not be changed. My word has come to pass. قول قول مَا يُبَدَّلُ الْقَوْلُ
مَا يَلْفِظُ مِنْ قَوْلٍ Okay? So where it starts is where it ends. Then Allah says, The drunken state of death came. This is what you were running away from. The Horn will be blown into. That's what you were warned about. You've been heedless about all of this because you were warned and you didn't care. Now the the covers have been removed, and now you can see all of this was what? You ignored the warnings, you ignored the warnings, you ignored the warnings. And on the flip side, the second last--that was the second item-- the second last item is don't argue in front of Me. The Warning already came. The Warning is in such detail. And by the second last side, the Warning has already came. And in the middle are the two statements of the qarīn. The qarīn, on the one hand, wants you to go to Hell, and on the other hand, doesn't want to go to Hell himself. So the reality of Shayṭān, who is gonna drop you on Judgment Day. Okay? That would be the symmetrical structure of part one of the middle of Sūrat Qāf. Then you come to part two. In part two. يَوْمَ نَقُولُ لِجَهَنَّمَ هَلْ امْتَلَأْتِ We say on that day to hell, 'Are you filled?' And it responds. هَلْ مِنْ مَزِيدٍ 'Is there anymore?' And that one statement was enough to not have Allāh describe Hell any further. There is no further need for an explanation of the Fire, of the torture, of the punishment, because that statement is shocking and terrifying all on its own. So the rest of this passage only deals with Jannah. وَأُزْلِفَتْ الْجَنَّةُ لِلْمُتَّقِينَ غَيْرَ بَعِيدٍ Heaven will be brought close for people of taqwā; it's not far away. هَذَا مَا تُوعَدُونَ And (غير بعيد) is actually a play on words. ذَلِكَ رَجْعٌ بَعِيدٌ And Allāh says for (متقين) don't worry, it's (متقين). هَذَا مَا تُوعَدُونَ لِكُلِّ أَوَّابٍ حَفِيظٍ This is what you've been promised for everyone who keeps coming back to Allāh, safeguarding himself. The one who was fearful of al-Raḥmān when he couldn't even see Him and came with a heart that keeps coming back. تَبْصِرَةً وَذِكْرَى لِكُلِّ عَبْدٍ مُنِيبٍ And now,
وَجَاءَ بِقَلْبٍ مُنِيبٍ ادْخُلُوهَا بِسَلاَمٍ
Enter safely ذَلِكَ يَوْمُ الْخُلُودِ
That's the day of living forever. لَهُمْ مَا يَشَاءُونَ فِيهَا وَلَدَيْنَا مَزِيدٌ
They have whatever they want in it and We have even more in store for them. So this brief passage, which contrasts simply Heaven and Hell. The interesting thing about it is the first of these āyāt said: وَتَقُولُ هَلْ مِنْ مَزِيدٍ
about Hell is there anymore? And about Heaven, Allāh says they'll have everything they want and We've got more. The first āya ends with (مزيد); and the last of these āyāt also ends with (مزيد). So the verbal link is there, you know, creating a kind of symmetry between those two passages. So this is kind of an overall structure of Sūrat Qāf. Was that clear to everybody?
