بسم الله
و الصلاة و السلام على رسول الله و آله و صحبه أجمعين سورةٌ أنزلنا Allāh, 'azza wa jalla, describes in the Qur'ān that he revealed not just āyāt or Qur'ān, but he literally uses the word 'sūra' that we sent down like the beginning of Sūrat al-Nūr So you're actually literally calls itself a 'sūra'. Sometimes the Qur'ān in the beginning of a sūrah كتاب أنزلناه
a book that we sent down other times, he says, in this unique case, he says, a sūra, that we sent down. I wanted to discuss a little bit about the term sūra and what it implies and what its benefits are to give you an insight of what is it that we're dealing with when we're dealing with 114 sūrahs of the Qur'ān? Okay, I keep insisting that it's not the same as a chapter, right, and a lot himself chose the name sūra for it. That's what he used for it. Okay, so and it's not used for anything else in any other kind of literature, in the Arabic language or anywhere else. So it's a unique construct, building on the idea that even 'āya' is a unique construct. I I don't claim that idea is the same as verse because verses are, they either have a biblical connotation or poetic kind of connotation. And the idea is different from both of those. Okay, Qur'ān very aggressively rejects the notion that the the āya is something taken from the Bible. It also rejects the notion that it's anything like poetry و ما علمّناه الشعر و لا ينبغي له the the the idea itself is a unique, you know, entity, a literary entity, a divine entity. and so is sūra And so the word sūra, let's look at the etymology the language of it first, and see what comes from the origin of this word. 'sawra' (سَوْرَة) is one of the words the most common words used from that origin sūra, سَوْرة الخمر و غيرها
سوارها و جدّها uh huh did that when you have a wine or, um any kind of liquor that's extremely heavy or extremely strong, like even a little bit of it gets somebody drunk. It's very strong wine that's actually called the 'sawra' of wine the soda. So intensity has to has to do with intensity that reaches the head intoxicates the head. That's why they say سورة الشراب The 'sawra' of a drink is actually when the drink got straight to you went straight to your head like you got buzzed immediately as soon as you drank it. So it's something that impacts the mind very strongly. سُرْتُ إليه في أعالي السور
سار - يسور actually means to climb up to a very high place to climb up to a very, very high place. And that's why the word sūr, as we will see, was used for the ancient, tall, towering walls of the city that protect a city that are insurmountable. Which is why the poet says about the his enemy, that he wanted to kill. سرت إليه في أعالي السور So I climbed up to him to over the highest of the city walls to assassinate him. Okay, تسوّر Oh, and this is actually used in the Qur'ān. When the angels suddenly sprang up on Dawūd (عليه السلام) when he was in his inner quarters, of course, he was in a palace in a castle up in the tower and they scaled the entire wall and got their Allāh says, إذ تَسَوَّرُوا فِي المِحْرَاب When they scaled up and went all the way high again height getting to the head reaching heights. That's the continuous theme سَوْرَة المجد They use it for elevation in the figurative sense. Which is why when a when a king has a lot of high status or power or his power has reached new heights, سَوْرَة السلطان and from from that you get sūr and sūra. Sūra also means 'al-manzila', a status The word sūra literally means a high status. والسورة من البناء ما حُسن و طال And sūra of a building I mentioned to you before is a level of the building that's beautiful, prominent and very high, like a higher floor of a building is actually called a sūra, on which there are other floors. And then, um و منه سورة القرآن لأنها منزلة بعد منزلة أي مقطوعة عن الأخرى some actually argue that it's called the sūra because it's one level, and after it. There's another sūra, which is another level, and there's another store and they're cut off from each other. They're building on top of each other. Uh, this is why others also said سمّيت سورة من القرآن لأنها درجة إلى غيرها That's because it's again degrees one on top of the other. Now I want to share with you sūra also means:
حدّه حَدُّه
The borders of something. Okay, now the common, the most common terminology word that comes from sūra, are to that which impacts the head and that which is very high to defend, meaning the outer bounds of the city. So I want you to take the visual image of an ancient city. Some of you that play assassin's creed don't have to imagine it. You can just remember what you did. So So there's the ancient walls of a city that are guarding the outside of it, and there's only a gateway through to get inside. What is going on inside of a city inside of a city? There are shops, there are hospitals, there are schools. There are police stations there are court houses. There are, You know, there are houses of worship. There are homes. There are different kinds of things happening inside of a city. The city is not monolithic. It's not one kind of building and one kind of thing. Cities are a number of different things happening. And yet all of those things are inter playing with each other. They're all interacting with each other, working with each other. And if you've traveled a lot, you know that every city tends to have a unique kind of signature, like you can just go through a couple of blocks of a city and know what city you're in. Even if you were blindfolded, you know, or you saw a video of just, you know, if you know your way around around the world, or around big cities or even smaller towns, you can tell what kind of city you're in every city, though it has its own unique elements. Are those elements visibly the same? No. So that you find also in sūras sometimes elements that are not visibly the same, but they're still working with each other for a larger purpose. The other thing you find is. Sometimes you're in one city and you're in a neighborhood, and it reminds you of what another city like this is just like that neighborhood in that city. Oh, my God, they have exactly the same this or that, or the Walmart. Oh, you know. But I mean something other than you know, the leech that's sucking society. I mean something else, right? So some architecture, some streets, some park. It reminds you of a park in your city or a neighborhood in your city, etc. So it can very well be that a sūra reminds you of another sūra; or a piece of a sūra reminds you of another piece of another sūra. But what I find the most remarkable about the use of the word sūra because it's it's considered something that rises from the bottom to the top. Like the drink, its effect rises from the bottom to the top, like the grand wall that is built around the city rises from the bottom to the top, and its purpose is what it's inscalable. It's something that cannot be crossed over. That's the purpose of it. Qur'ān actually uses the term sūra and says a sūra, we dropped down instead of it being raised from the bottom up. It's dropped from the top down, which makes it impossible to surmount because you don't see the top of it. It's endless heights, its current way of saying that the sūrahs of the Qur'ān are not subject to attack their beyond attack. Okay, and they protect what guidance lies inside of them. So there's there's some observations about the term sūra, okay?
