الحمد لله و الصلاة و السلام على رسول الله و على آله و صحبه أجمعين السلام عليكم و رحمة الله تعلى و بركاته So we are now moving into the second section of the study and that is coherence within passages of the Qur'ān. And I use the word passage, sort of an invention of my own. The Qur'ān clearly does not have paragraphs or indents where you can tell one paragraph ended and the next one began and the next one began it's not like that. It's just all the Ayāt are bunched together in one sūrāh. The only distinguishable units of the Qur'ān are sūrah and āyah, right? Those are the only units of the Qur'ān that we know about. Regardless of that, what I want you to know is, Inshāllāh after this this discussion, when we get into the structure of sūrahs themselves, then I'll say some things about the word sūrah and the word āyah and how they correspond with each other. It'll be the next unit, but before we get there, right now I want to define what "passage" means. It's very distinct that sometimes there's a group of āyāt that are dealing with a similar subject. Okay, you can tell. Okay, these are āyāt about Musa and Fir'own. And then the subject is going to switch to the Ahkirah or something like that, or these āyāt are about different things Allāh created. And then there's gonna be a set of āyāt about the afterlife. You could clearly tell there's a change of subject and the next group of āyāt are one distinct topic, right? Or for example, when you have وَٱلْعَـٰدِيَـٰتِ ضَبْحًۭا فَٱلْمُورِيَـٰتِ قَدْحًۭا فَٱلْمُغِيرَٰتِ صُبْحًۭا فَأَثَرْنَ بِهِۦ نَقْعًۭا فَوَسَطْنَ بِهِۦ جَمْعًا Those are one distinct subject. (فَا، فَا، فَا، فَا). This then this, then this, then this, then this. They're one distinct subject. That's what I'm calling a 'passage'. You can use different words for it. Orientalists, and other Western academics use words like 'section'. They say section one, section two, section three and then subsection. I've used that in the past also. But for the purposes of ease, I'm just calling them 'passages'. Now there are two kinds of studies we're going to do when we study the nazm (Coherence) the structure and the organization of passages. We're talking about a distinct set of āyāt. Basically, what I'm saying is more than an āyah, but less than a sūrah. That's what we're talking about right now. Okay? And when we do that, there's two ways of studying it. One is, how is an argument progressing? How is it going from--How is the point being made from, the first of these āyat to the second to the third to the fourth to the fifth? And is it leading to a conclusion? Are they escalating in something? Are they reaching a conclusion towards something? Are they building upon an idea that was previously built or stated? Some of that you already saw when we were discussing āyāt that were unrelated or looked unrelated. When I was translating the passage that led up to them, you could see there's a logical progression happening. So that was kind of accidentally we're kind of already dealing with the development of an argument. But there's another component to this, and that's a little bit more complicated. And that's probably the hardest challenge I have with you guys today, is to describe the structural view of passages. That'll be the second study. So for each of them, the first one I call it "developing an argument". We're going to do a number of case studies of how arguments are developed through a course of a set of āyāt. How an idea is built upon. Okay? So we're gonna look at a few passages, a few case studies of that. Then we're going to take a step back and look at a structural view of certain passages. How are things organized from a sometimes looks like a symmetrical point of view. Some sort of patterns are established, some connections are made, and that sounds a bit complicated. But, Inshāllāh ta'āla my job is to try to make that easy to understand and for you to be able to see some of the more sophisticated level of organization in the passages of the Qur'ān. So let's begin first and foremost with a set of āyāt that belonged to Sūrat al-Baqara. I'm looking at āyāhs number 91-93. These, of course, are part of the discourse on the Israelites. So Sūrat al-Baqara 91-93, and Allāh is criticizing the Israelites. And here's the criticism
وَإِذَا قِيلَ لَهُمْ ءَامِنُوا۟ بِمَآ أَنزَلَ ٱللَّهُ When it is said to them, believe in what Allah sent down. قَالُوا۟ نُؤْمِنُ بِمَآ أُنزِلَ عَلَيْنَا They say, basically, they say we already believe in what was sent to us. So they are told 'Believe in Qur'ān', They say, 'No thanks. We already have the Tawrāt.' Essentially. وَيَكْفُرُونَ بِمَا وَرَآءَهُ While the fact of the matter is, they actually disbelieve in what they have behind them. Allāh is saying, not only do you not believe in the Qur'ān, I am claiming you don't even believe in Tawrāt. وَيَكْفُرُونَ بِمَا وَرَآءَهُۥ وَهُوَ ٱلْحَقُّ مُصَدِّقًۭا لِّمَا مَعَهُمْ And it is the truth, meaning Qur'ān is the truth, confirming what they have with them. Notice the language. It's the truth confirming what they have with them. Not the truth confirming what they believe because they don't believe in it. Allāh is criticizing you don't even believe in your own Tawrāt as expected. But what you have in your possession, Qur'ān confirms. قُلْ فَلِمَ تَقْتُلُونَ أَنۢبِيَآءَ ٱللَّهِ Say or basically ask then why then did you kill or did you engage in the killing of prophets of Allah [مِن قَبْلُ] from so long ago إِن كُنتُم مُّؤْمِنِينَ
if in fact, you are all believers? Remember I told you maybe in not recorded portion of this discussion. I told you that, they actually killed prophets and justified it in their books. They would describe prophets in many cases ars very despicable people, very bad people that should be disobeyed. And that's why the Qur'ān even adds the qualifier: You killed prophets without any right. (بِغَيْرِ حَقٍّ) or (بِغَيْرِ الحَقٍّۢ). You don't like, Muneer pointed it out, you don't have to (بِغَيْرِ الحَقٍّۢ). Killing prophets is bad enough. What does it mean to say you killed prophets without any right? You had no right to kill prophets. Well, even if you didn't say without any right, it's still wrong. So the the addition without any right is because they claim they did have right. They actually justified it. And Allāh says: No, your justifications are false. Anyway, so here Allāh asked, Why did you kill the prophets of Allāh in fact, if you're believers?
وَلَقَدْ جَآءَكُم مُّوسَىٰ بِٱلْبَيِّنَـٰتِ And Musa certainly came to you with clear proofs. ثُمَّ ٱتَّخَذْتُمُ ٱلْعِجْلَ مِنۢ بَعْدِهِ and you there after, even after he came to you with the clearest evidences you held on to the calf for worship, even after him, وَأَنتُمْ ظَـٰلِمُونَ,
while you were doing wrong. وَإِذْ أَخَذْنَا مِيثَـٰقَكُمْ وَرَفَعْنَا فَوْقَكُمُ ٱلطُّورَ When We took the covenant from you and We raised the mountain of at-Tūr above you خُذُوا۟ مَآ ءَاتَيْنَـٰكُم بِقُوَّةٍۢ hold on to what We have given you with great might. وَٱسْمَعُوا۟
and listen قَالُوا۟ سَمِعْنَا وَعَصَيْنَا
They said we hear and we disobey وَأُشْرِبُوا۟ فِى قُلُوبِهِمُ ٱلْعِجْلَ بِكُفْرِهِمْ And thus the the the love of the calf was poured and gulped down their hearts. Made to gulp down their hearts because of their disbelief. قُلْ بِئْسَمَا يَأْمُرُكُم بِهِۦٓ إِيمَـٰنُكُمْ إِن كُنتُم مُّؤْمِنِينَ Tell them how terrible your faith-this faith of yours, what terrible things it compels you to do if in fact you are believers. This is the passage, I did not deliberately, as I was translating it I deliberately tried to not highlight how the argument is progressing. Because I want to now highlight to you how the argument is progressing. The first issue brought was when you're told accept the Qur'ān, they say "No". Instead of having reverence for the Qur'ān, we already have reverence for something we have. Which is what? No, you don't. Even though if you did, you would see that the Qur'ān is confirming what truth you have left in the Tawrāt. And if you are so regarding of Tawrāt, how come you killed the prophets who taught the Tawrāt? I--my--Allāh's proof that you don't believe in the Tawrāt is that you justified the killing of the prophets who actually came to reinforce the teachings of the  Tawrāt. فَلِمَ تَقْتُلُونَ أَنۢبِيَآءَ ٱللَّهِ إِن كُنتُم مُّؤْمِنِينَ Taurah--You know, the prophets of Banī Isrā'īl would come, not with new revelation. They would come to restore the Tawrāt given to Musa. And teach it again. And they would hate that and kill them, and corrupt it again. They'd teach it again, they killed them and corrupt them again. Fine, you had no respect for the prophets. But at least the prophet that got you out of the clutches of the Pharaoh. The ones you even-- the إضافة (annexation) they make. We say: كتاب الله (Book of Allāh). We say كتاب الله (book of Allāh) You know what they say?
"Tawrāt Mouche" "Tawrat Mouche" What does that mean? The Torah of. So they have reverence at least for Musa. Allāh then progresses the argument further. You told Me you have reverence for Tawrāt. I'm telling you, you don't because you even killed the prophets who taught the Tawrāt. Forget the other prophets. You didn't even spare Musa. وَلَقَدْ جَآءَكُم مُّوسَىٰ بِٱلْبَيِّنَـٰتِ Even Musa had come to you with the clearest of proofs . And what did you do with Musa who had given the Tawrāt to you? The original giver of the Tawrāt to you? You started worshiping a calf even in his presence. مِنۢ بَعْدِهِۦ
And you were doing wrong in his face arguing against him. And so now we've seen, okay no regard for the Tawrāt, no regard for the teachers of Tawrāt historically and no regard for the even their their political hero, their prophet, the one they identified themselves with; Musa (عليه السلام) you didn't even regard him. But the argument is not done. Let's talk about how much regard you have even for Allāh Himself. Because if you go-- keep going higher up above the prophets for them is Musa above Musa is who? Allāh 'azwa jal So Allāh says
وَإِذْ أَخَذْنَا مِيثَـٰقَكُمْ when We ourselves took the covenant from you.
وَرَفَعْنَا فَوْقَكُمُ ٱلطُّورَ We elevated the mountain above your heads. Allah Himself told you خُذُوا۟ مَآ ءَاتَيْنَـٰكُم Hold on to what We've given you with great might. You even turned to God directly and said
سَمِعْنَا وَعَصَيْنَا We hear and we disobey. This is what you're, you say thanks we already believe. This is where the conversation started and Allāh is saying: Oh, this is how you believe? What did you do with prophets? What did you Musa? What did you do with Allāh Himself? When you spoke with the Allāh directly? Then
وَأُشْرِبُوا۟ فِى قُلُوبِهِمُ ٱلْعِجْلَ بِكُفْرِهِمْ ۚ [قُلْ] Tell them after all this, because the conversation started with نُؤْمِنُ بِمَآ أُنزِلَ عَلَيْنَا
we believe in what was given to us by the end Allāh says, what a terrible thing this faith of yours makes you do what horrible things it tells you to do.
إِن كُنتُم مُّؤْمِنِينَ
If in fact, that is faith. If you'd like to call that faith, it's been telling you to do some pretty wild stuff. Killing prophets, disregarding Musa, worshiping a calf, defying Allāh directly. Wow, mā shāʾ Allāh, some good Imān (faith) you got there, essentially بِئْسَمَا يَأْمُرُكُم بِهِۦٓ إِيمَـٰنُكُمْ إِن كُنتُم مُّؤْمِنِينَ You see how they're smart answer has been crushed one after the other, after the other, with a progression that gets worse and worse and worse and worse. Okay is that one clear to everybody? Okay so we'll quickly move along Inshallah this is a brief one, yet an interesting one. And it's how Ibrahim (عليه السلام) is used as part of progressing an argument. We're looking at Surāt al-Imrān, and we're looking at āyāt number 64 to 67. قُلْ يَـٰٓأَهْلَ ٱلْكِتَـٰبِ Say people of the book
تَعَالَوْا۟ إِلَىٰ كَلِمَةٍۢ come towards a word سَوَآءٍۭ بَيْنَنَا وَبَيْنَكُمْ
that is in common between you and ourselves. Why don't you come and let's discuss something you-- a teaching that both you and ourselves have in common. Muslims are told to give this invitation to Jews and Christians. أَلَّا نَعْبُدَ إِلَّا ٱللَّهَ
that we're not gonna worship anyone except God. except Allāh. وَلَا نُشْرِكَ بِهِۦ شَيْـًۭٔا And we will not make any partners with Him in any way, shape or form. وَلَا يَتَّخِذَ بَعْضُنَا بَعْضًا أَرْبَابًۭا مِّن دُونِ ٱللَّهِ And we will not take some of us as opposed to others as gods besides Allāh. فَإِن تَوَلَّوْا۟
And if they still turn away فَقُولُوا۟ ٱشْهَدُوا۟ بِأَنَّا مُسْلِمُونَ
then as they turn away, say to them, At least testify that we're Muslims. At least say with your mouth, You're not Muslim and we are. Which they would happily say. They'll say, Yeah, fine. شَهِدْنا أَنْتُمْ مُسْلِمُونَ Well, we testify you are Muslims. Muslims to them are deviant and wrong anyway. What does Allāh say next? First, He said, Come to a common word. And what was the common word? Worship the same God, don't do shirk, don't make false gods, as you know, deified, popeified kind of entities, things like that. يَـٰٓأَهْلَ ٱلْكِتَـٰبِ لِمَ تُحَآجُّونَ فِىٓ إِبْرَٰهِيمَ People of the book, why are you even arguing about Abraham? When we say we have something in common with the Jews and the Christians we call it the religion of Abraham, right? The Abrahamic faiths. That's the term that you may have heard. Allāh then builds on that idea and says, People of the book why are you even making arguments about Ibrahim and claiming him? وَمَآ أُنزِلَتِ ٱلتَّوْرَىٰةُ وَٱلْإِنجِيلُ إِلَّا مِنۢ بَعْدِهِۦٓ Tawrāt and Injil was only given after him. That's that's a later thing. Ibrahim (عليه السلام), if you were to look at his legacy, all it amounts to is: أَلَّا نَعْبُدَ إِلَّا ٱللَّهَ وَلَا نُشْرِكَ بِهِۦ شَيْـًۭٔا وَلَا يَتَّخِذَ بَعْضُنَا بَعْضًا أَرْبَابًۭا مِّن دُونِ ٱللَّهِ ۚ The common word that we started with no one better represents that common word than who? Ibrahim  (عليه السلام). So why are you even arguing about Ibrahim? What we're saying is very Abrahamic. Why do you have a problem with that? And then أَفَلَا تَعْقِلُونَ
Why don't you- Why don't you then apply your intellect? هَـٰٓأَنتُمْ هَـٰٓؤُلَآءِ حَـٰجَجْتُمْ فِيمَا لَكُم بِهِۦ عِلْمٌۭ Here you are debating about things that you do know some things about. We see you debating about Moses. We see you're debating about, you know, Jesus, etc etc. فَلِمَ تُحَآجُّونَ فِيمَا لَيْسَ لَكُم بِهِۦ عِلْمٌۭ ۚ Why are you even arguing about stuff, you know nothing of? Why are you even making things up? Because you know what some Christian theological arguments became? The arguments became that of course, salvation is only through the blood of Jesus, right? Humanity's sins are paid for through the blood of Jesus. And the only way to save yourself is by accepting Jesus as Lord and Savior. But you can only accept Jesus as Lord and savior if you came after Jesus. So what's gonna happen to Abraham? What's gonna happen to Moses? All these people that are talked about in the Bible that were prophets of God did not have the blood of Jesus to save them. So what's gonna happen with them? Are they going to go to heaven without Jesus? But wait, if we say they're going to go to heaven without Jesus, that's a problem. Because that then that undercuts our whole Jesus theory. So we have to come up with a new-- postulate a new theory. So some denominations of Christianity came up with a solution, and the solution was that those prophets and those good people that are mentioned in the Bible from the past are stuck in the elevator called purgatory. Okay? It's a place called Purgatory, it's not quite hell, it's not heaven. They're basically stuck in the elevator. And on Judgment Day, Jesus is gonna come. They're gonna say, Oh, Lord and savior, And then they can go in. So they had to make this up. Allāh says I see you are arguing about things that are actually revealed and you change it a little bit, you have some argument. Why are you making stuff up? Why are you even making these debates? فَلِمَ تُحَآجُّونَ فِيمَا لَيْسَ لَكُم بِهِۦ عِلْمٌۭ ۚ وَٱللَّهُ يَعْلَمُ وَأَنتُمْ لَا تَعْلَمُونَ Allāh knows and you dont know. And then finally He uses the Abrahamic legacy to basically make the point: They were probably saying, Yeah, fine, you're Muslim, we're not. But Allāh says by you saying that we are Muslim and you're not. Here is the point. مَا كَانَ إِبْرَٰهِيمُ يَهُودِيًّۭا وَلَا نَصْرَانِيًّۭا Ibrahim (عليه السلام) was neither Jewish nor Christian وَلَـٰكِن كَانَ حَنِيفًۭا مُّسْلِمًۭا however he was solely focused before Allāh, one who submits to the will of God 'a Muslim'. وَمَا كَانَ مِنَ ٱلْمُشْرِكِينَ And he did not commit any form of shirk. He did not commit adultery-- you know idolatory of any kind. What is the āyāh saying? By calling us Muslim, you are calling us those who uphold the legacy of Abraham. By saying-- by you calling us Muslim you've actually handed over the license to carry the legacy of Ibrahim to us. You no longer have the right to that legacy. You don't get to say you are loyal to Ibrahim. You don't get to say you are Abrahamic faiths now. So that's how the argument has progressed from Islam to Ibrahim. And those two things have been tied together. Okay? That's our second case study. Now we're gonna switch gears. Those were Meccan examples, and we're going to go to a progressive argument in Surat an-Naba, Makki surah, 78. And we're gonna look at āyāhs number 6 all the way to 16. Okay? These are āyāt of creation. I'll translate them first for you, and then show you some imagery and the progression of imagery in the āyāt. أَلَمْ نَجْعَلِ ٱلْأَرْضَ مِهَـٰدًۭا Didn't We make the earth into a cradle? وَٱلْجِبَالَ أَوْتَادًۭا And didn't We make the mountains into pegs? أَوْتَادًۭا - is used for the pegs you put down for a tent. وَخَلَقْنَـٰكُمْ أَزْوَٰجًۭا And didn't We--and We made you into spouses. وَجَعَلْنَا نَوْمَكُمْ سُبَاتًۭا And We made your sleep into something that cuts you off. يعني قطعا سباتا قطعا It cuts you off وَجَعَلْنَا ٱلَّيْلَ لِبَاسًۭا
And We made the night into a garment, a clothing. وَجَعَلْنَا ٱلنَّهَارَ مَعَاشًۭا
And We made the day into a means of living. وَبَنَيْنَا فَوْقَكُمْ سَبْعًۭا شِدَادًۭا
And We placed above you seven intense ones, meaning seven skies. وَجَعَلْنَا سِرَاجًۭا وَهَّاجًۭا
And We placed a burning lamp, a brilliant blazing lamp, meaning referring to the sun. وَأَنزَلْنَا مِنَ ٱلْمُعْصِرَٰتِ مَآءًۭ ثَجَّاجًۭا And We sent down from the squeezing clouds water that gushes out لِّنُخْرِجَ بِهِۦ حَبًّۭا وَنَبَاتًۭا
وَجَنَّـٰتٍ أَلْفَافًا So that by means of it grains and produce can come out and gardens that are lush can come forth. Okay, so these are āyāt of Allāh from the earth, the mountain and so on and so forth. Okay? You'll notice in these āyāt, there's an imagery that's been captured. Surāt an-Naba's function, its basic premise is there's a life after death. Judgment Day is coming. And everything Allāh makes is in pairs. This life has been paired with the next one. Jannah has been paired with Nār (fire), for example. This life is like one day, because when people will rise on Judgment Day and they will be asked how long did you stay here? What will they say? لَبِثْنَا يَوْمًا We were only here for a day. Okay? And this day has been paired with that day. This day and that day. Okay? Allāh says this function or this design of Allāh of things in pairs, Allāh put in everything. And so what-- part of that is the earth is paired and earth Allah actually paired with the flat land with the mountain. The earth is 'مِهَـٰدًۭا' and the 'ٱلْجِبَالَ' is 'أَوْتَادًۭا' Okay? And this is actually also goes into a subtle bit of imagery, things alluding to other things. 'مِهَـٰدًۭا' is a bed, but 'مِهَـٰدًۭا' is also the womb of a mother, mahad. The cradle of a mother. The earth is being described as a motherly, you know image. And the earth has the same qualities as a mother. How so? Because the earth produces life, like a mother produces life. The female produces life. The mountain is a symbol of strength, stability. What is this supposed to be? The man's role. Qawwām. Stable. So the female and the male are compared like the earth and the mountain. And of course, the mountain is described as, (أَوْتَادًۭا) pegged. And the peg is supposed to be something that stays in place, offers stability. Okay? Which is why I-- one of the reasons rijāl are called rijāl, it is from rijal. And what is rijal? They have their foot firm on the ground. They are on firm standing; as part of the implication of the word the rijāl. Okay? Now the progression here is also--Neil Robinson said this so beautifully in his work on this surāh. He describes think of all of this imagery as someone on a journey. Someone on a journey. They're traveling in the journey in the desert. What's their bed? The earth. And then they're going to set up a tent as night comes. But they see the entire earth is a bed. And what looks like tents? The mountains do. And now, Allāh says, Just like the earth and the mountains are paired, you're also paired. And now imagine night falls because he's traveling and night has fallen. He's going to set up his tent. And he's going to sleep next to his spouse. وَجَعَلْنَا نَوْمَكُمْ سُبَاتًۭا and then He says, the night has been made-- Now the night has fallen because sleep logically leads into night. The night has fallen and the night He describes as لِبَاسًۭا which is really interesting because the only other time in the Qurān spouse and لِبَاسًۭا come together are in the āyāt of Ramadan. هُنَّ لِبَاسٌۭ لَّكُمْ وَأَنتُمْ لِبَاسٌۭ لَّهُنَّ The night was made into a garment, just like your spouse is made into a garment. Speaking of spouse, the night is also a garment. It's like that. Okay, just like your spouses, your garment. The night is also a garment. Now, after the night is done
وَجَعَلْنَا ٱلنَّهَارَ مَعَاشًۭا
night is over time to get up and make a living. And when he makes a living, he's going to roll up his tent and he's going to get out. The sun in the desert is open and intense. So what's he going to notice? وَبَنَيْنَا فَوْقَكُمْ سَبْعًۭا شِدَادًۭا
The seven skies above him and in that sky, what's the most prominent thing? وَجَعَلْنَا سِرَاجًۭا وَهَّاجًۭا The intense burning sun. That intense burning sun can also be a kind of death. But Allāh brings relief, not only does He bring that intense burning lamp وَأَنزَلْنَا مِنَ ٱلْمُعْصِرَٰتِ مَآءًۭ ثَجَّاجًۭا What He brings from that same sky
that is so intense with that burning lamp He brings clouds that squeeze and water comes down and then gardens come forth and your your life is sustained. Everything is moving with everything else. And Robinson argues that it's, which is even other part of other coherence. where we talked about the placement of passages that basically what Allāh is saying here is that your life in this world is like one traveler in the desert. Who goes, sleeps the night, puts his tent down. Then he's gonna get up and he's gonna roll up his tent and he's gonna go along. And his eventual destination might be a garden, just like yours is meant to be the garden of Jannah. Right? And which is why you'll find in Surat an-Naba the mountains are gonna sail away like the tent gets rolled up and taken away, and the sky is gonna open up like everything is going to move from its place, just like a traveler just moves on. You know? So that's the progression of imagery in Surat an-Naba. My favorite example of this, however, is this one. I don't know if I'll get to do both of them, but I'll do at least one of them. And that--this is in Sūrat an-Nahl, Sūrah number 16 one of the most profound Sūrahs of imagery I've ever come across. And this is āyahs number 64 to 69. I'm going to read these off to you in translation without showing you the progression first. And then we'll talk about how they progress. 64 to 69 of Sūrat al-Nahl al-Nahl is 16, okay? وَمَآ أَنزَلْنَا عَلَيْكَ ٱلْكِتَـٰبَ
We did not send the book down onto you إِلَّا لِتُبَيِّنَ لَهُمُ ٱلَّذِى ٱخْتَلَفُوا۟ فِيهِ except that you should clarify for them the things that they disagree about وَهُدًۭى
and as a guidance, وَرَحْمَةًۭ
and as a mercy لِّقَوْمٍۢ يُؤْمِنُونَ
for a group of people that wish to believe. وَٱللَّهُ أَنزَلَ مِنَ ٱلسَّمَآءِ مَآءًۭ
And Allāh, He sent down water from the sky فَأَحْيَا بِهِ ٱلْأَرْضَ بَعْدَ مَوْتِهَآ
and by means of the water He brought earth--life to the earth after its death. إِنَّ فِى ذَٰلِكَ لَـَٔايَةًۭ لِّقَوْمٍۢ يَسْمَعُونَ. Certainly there is a sign in that for people that are willing to listen, that are trying to listen. وَإِنَّ لَكُمْ فِى ٱلْأَنْعَـٰمِ لَعِبْرَةًۭ And in cattle there is yet another great profound lesson for you. In what is there a lesson for you? In cattle. نُّسْقِيكُم مِّمَّا فِى بُطُونِهِ
We give you drink from what is found in its belly مِنۢ بَيْنِ فَرْثٍۢ وَدَمٍۢ
from between feces and blood لَّبَنًا خَالِصًۭا سَآئِغًۭا لِّلشَّـٰرِبِينَ pure milk that replenishes, rejuvenates those who drink. وَمِن ثَمَرَٰتِ ٱلنَّخِيلِ And from the fruits that come from palm trees وَٱلْأَعْنَـٰبِ
and from grapes تَتَّخِذُونَ مِنْهُ سَكَرًۭا وَرِزْقًا حَسَنًا ۗ
you use it to produce wine and good sustenance too. He separates them. You can do two things with grapes and with dates, you can make wine out of them or you can make good stuff from them too. Because 'سَكَرًۭا' would not be a good thing. But He says you can make it. إِنَّ فِى ذَٰلِكَ لَـَٔايَةًۭ لِّقَوْمٍۢ يَعْقِلُونَ And in all of that, there's certainly a sign for a group of people that are trying to understand. وَأَوْحَىٰ رَبُّكَ إِلَى ٱلنَّحْلِ and your Master revealed to the bee أَنِ ٱتَّخِذِى مِنَ ٱلْجِبَالِ بُيُوتًۭا that you should take from the mountains--take up homes in the mountains وَمِنَ ٱلشَّجَرِ
and take up homes in the trees. وَمِمَّا يَعْرِشُونَ
and from whatever they build meaning sometimes honey bees build a hive even in in the the columns of a palace what people built. So not only in nature, in even artificial places they might end up building something. ثُمَّ كُلِى مِن كُلِّ ٱلثَّمَرَٰتِ
Then eat from all of the fruits. فَٱسْلُكِى سُبُلَ رَبِّكِ
Then pursue the pathways identified by your Master ذُلُلًۭا
with humility يَخْرُجُ مِنۢ بُطُونِهَا شَرَابٌۭ مُّخْتَلِفٌ أَلْوَٰنُهُ what comes from its bellies. Meaning the bellies of the bees is a drink that is of different colors. He's referring to what drink? He's referring to honey. فِيهِ شِفَآءٌۭ لِّلنَّاسِ
in which there is healing for people إِنَّ فِى ذَٰلِكَ لَـَٔايَةًۭ لِّقَوْمٍۢ يَتَفَكَّرُونَ In all of that, there certainly is a miraculous sign for people that think deeply. Okay so this was the passage that you may have thought of some parallels. Maybe you can guess what connects these Ayāt? What is it? Drinks. Water from the sky. Milk. Wine. Juices, honey, isn't it? But there's something more going on here. I deliberately included ayāh number 64 as the first ayāh of the progressive passage, which was not about drinks at all. What is it about? It's about revelation coming down so you could describe revelation to people. And revelation will serve as guidance and revelation will serve as mercy for people that seek to believe. Everything else that follows is imagery that will further your understanding of revelation itself. The imagery are lessons by which we will learn something about the process of revelation and the effect that it has. Allāh says, He sent water from the sky and it gave life to the earth. Just like revelation comes from the sky and gives life to the hearts. And usually when water comes from the sky and gives life to the earth, is that a sign for your ears? Or is that a sign for your eyes? That's a sign for your eyes. Look at the end of the āyāh: إِنَّ فِى ذَٰلِكَ لَـَٔايَةًۭ لِّقَوْمٍۢ يَسْمَعُونَ In it, there's a sign for people that are trying to listen. Wait, which of the signs is for listening? Revelation or water? So it's talking about revelation. It's making you think, Look at water but listen carefully am I talking really about water, or am I using water as a metaphor? Subḥānahu wataʿālā. To describe what what revelation does. What life it brings. And He says,
speaking of drinks that replenish you وَإِنَّ لَكُمْ فِى ٱلْأَنْعَـٰمِ لَعِبْرَةًۭ Yet another parable is you can take a good look at cattle. Because drink doesn't just come from the sky. There are other drinks you enjoy. Like milk. Where does it come from? From the belly of an animal in between what two things did He specifically say? Blood and feces. Okay. The earth can be brought to life. Something good comes from it. Now keep that imagery in mind, something good and something pure coming. The Ṣaḥāba were in a good environment or in a bad environment? They were in one of the worst environments in the world. They were surrounded with what you can call impurity and impurity, blood and feces. But when Allāh inspires, then purity can even come from within the most impure of environments. The most impure of environments will produce that which will replenish you and give you. The Qur'ān is also described as though it came from the command of Allāh in the most corrupt of environments and it to this day, it replenishes people. خَالِصًۭا سَآئِغًۭا لِّلشَّـٰرِبِينَ Yet another parable for revelation is that even in the worst of environments, revelation can come as pure and not be corrupted. And it will replenish those even if they're in a bad environment. You with me so far? Okay, so now we're not just saying revelation is beneficial for you know, yes, it gives the dead earth life. But even in a bad environment, it can reform the environment. He takes the next step, He says, now ponder over the fruits that come from palm trees and grapes. But when He talked about them, He didn't just say good stuff comes from it. What did He say? Bad stuff comes from it and-- 'سَكَرًۭا' and you-- He didn't say Allah takes it out. He says تَتَّخِذُونَ مِنْهُ سَكَرًۭا you bring out from it wine and you bring out good 'رِزْقًا' also. One parable was a bad environment and goods coming out of it. Yes? The opposite scene. There's good originally. What's good originally? A palm tree is good grapes are good. But what's coming out of it? Bad. Compare--Understand that the people that were given revelation before us, the Israelites, they were given a lot of good. Lots of prophets, the Tawrāt everything about what they had was good. They took that pure good and did they use it correctly or incorrectly? They could have used it as رِزْقًا حَسَنًا but they turned it into 'سَكَرًۭا' instead. It's no accident that this Sūrat al-Nahl at the very end is going to criticize the Israelites, even though it's a Makki Sūrah. Okay? You can misuse revelation too. You can misuse the pure 'رِزْقًا' that Allāh gives you also. In the worst of environments, purity can be retained. And in the best of environments, your corruption can make it corrupt too. تَتَّخِذُونَ مِنْهُ سَكَرًۭا وَرِزْقًا حَسَنًا And this is for those who really think about it. Every drink has some reference to what happens with revelations so far. Yeah? وَأَوْحَىٰ رَبُّكَ إِلَى ٱلنَّحْلِ Allāh revealed to the bee and the bees job is to take from different places and then take pathways that Allāh commanded it to, just like angels take the pathways Allāh command them to, to deliver revelation. And Allāh inspired them to bring that revelation. And when they bring that revelation, what is the benefit of this revelation? Does revelation have different textures by the way? Do some Ayāt bring mercy?  Do some bring fear? Do some bring council? Do some bring knowledge? Do some bring wisdom? شَرَابٌۭ مُّخْتَلِفٌ أَلْوَٰنُهُۥ Do all the Sūrahs have the same color? The same texture? The same flavor? Do they all have their own sweetness? Unique signatures? And so He says, فِيهِ شِفَآءٌۭ لِّلنَّاسِ
In it, meaning in honey, there is healing for people. The only other time 'شِفَآءٌ' is used in the Qur'ān قَدْ جَآءَتْكُم مَّوْعِظَةٌۭ مِّن رَّبِّكُمْ وَشِفَآءٌۭ لِّمَا فِى ٱلصُّدُورِ Qur'ān is 'شِفَآءٌۭ', honey is 'شِفَآءٌۭ' because the honey is a parable for the Qur'ān and its sweetness and its divine origin. And the way that the honey is extracted, nobody can extract it except by the command of Allāh. Its sources and the way it's turned into revelation. You know like Allāh took, literally, what is right in front of us. History is in front of us. The events are in front of us,
and Allāh will make reference to events that happened before the Prophet's eyes, before the people's eyes. Allāh will make reference to things that happen in the time of Fir'own and historians will talk about it. Others will talk about it, it's the same fruit but when the honeybee extracts from it and by Allāh's command produces honey, it's a different thing altogether. And so it's the same events that a historian sees, that human being sees. But when Allāh comments on that event, then its sweetness and its guidance is something else, it's healing for people إِنَّ فِى ذَٰلِكَ لَـَٔايَةًۭ لِّقَوْمٍۢ يَتَفَكَّرُونَ You can go to the same flower that the honeybee goes to. You can go to the same fruit that the honeybee goes to, and you won't get honey out of it. That can only happen when Allah extracts from it by Allāh's command and compiles it. إِنَّ فِى ذَٰلِكَ لَـَٔايَةًۭ لِّقَوْمٍۢ يَتَفَكَّرُونَ So the the the physical imagery in the Qur'ān and sometimes the way it progresses has some very profound spiritual lessons associated with it. Okay? Since you guys are doing okay, can I do another one before the break? Okay. This is also Sūrat al-Nahl because I'm obsessed with Sūrat al-Nahl. It's really sweet. Okay, that's a good one. Yeah, I've tickled myself. Hold on, I-- regain my composure. بسم الله و الصلاة و السلام على رسول الله و على آله و صحبه أجمعين أعوذ بالله من الشيطان الرجيم وَٱللَّهُ أَخْرَجَكُم مِّنۢ بُطُونِ
أُمَّهَـٰتِكُمْ لَا تَعْلَمُونَ شَيْـًۭٔا وَجَعَلَ لَكُمُ ٱلسَّمْعَ وَٱلْأَبْصَـٰرَ
وَٱلْأَفْـِٔدَةَ ۙ لَعَلَّكُمْ تَشْكُرُونَ These Ayāt from Sūrat al-Nahl and also represent a progressive imagery that teaches a profound lesson about the mercy of Allāh on human beings and how He cares for them. Allāh 'azwa jal says, I'll translate all of it first, Allāh is the One Who-- Allāh in fact, He extracted you
from the bellies of your mothers while you knew nothing. It also translates, and you still know nothing. لَا تَعْلَمُونَ شَيْـًۭٔا could be ḥālīyah or i'tiradhiyah, and if it is ḥālīyah 'as you knew nothing', and by the way, you still know nothing. Okay? وَجَعَلَ لَكُمُ ٱلسَّمْعَ وَٱلْأَبْصَـٰرَ وَٱلْأَفْـِٔدَةَ and He placed for you He put for you in place the ability to see--to hear, to see and hearts. لَعَلَّكُمْ تَشْكُرُونَ
So you may become grateful أَلَمْ يَرَوْا۟ إِلَى ٱلطَّيْرِ مُسَخَّرَٰتٍۢ فِى جَوِّ ٱلسَّمَآءِ Haven't they looked to birds that are hung in the belly of the sky, in the middle of the sky. مَا يُمْسِكُهُنَّ إِلَّا ٱللَّهُ
Nobody's holding them in place except Allāh إِنَّ فِى ذَٰلِكَ لَـَٔايَـٰتٍۢ لِّقَوْمٍۢ يُؤْمِنُونَ In all of that, there certainly are miraculous signs for those who believe وَٱللَّهُ جَعَلَ لَكُم مِّنۢ بُيُوتِكُمْ سَكَنًۭا And Allāh put--made for you in your homes, a place in which you can find
stillness, comfort, calmness. وَجَعَلَ لَكُم مِّن جُلُودِ ٱلْأَنْعَـٰمِ بُيُوتًۭا and He also put in place for you, from the skins of animals, temporary homes you can make. تَسْتَخِفُّونَهَا
You find them light to carry on your backs. Tents basically made from the skins of animals. يَوْمَ ظَعْنِكُمْ وَيَوْمَ إِقَامَتِكُمْ The day you're going to go take off, the day your going stay وَمِنْ أَصْوَافِهَا وَأَوْبَارِهَا وَأَشْعَارِهَآ أَثَـٰثًۭا وَمَتَـٰعًا إِلَىٰ حِينٍۢ and you take from their wool and their hairs and their skins. You take them to make all kinds of goodness for yourselves and to enjoy them for a while. وَٱللَّهُ جَعَلَ لَكُم
مِّمَّا خَلَقَ ظِلَـٰلًۭا And Allāh put in place for you from
the things He created shadows, shade. The comfort of shade. وَجَعَلَ لَكُم مِّنَ ٱلْجِبَالِ أَكْنَـٰنًۭا And He put in place for you from the mountains-- within the mountains He made caves for you to find refuge in as you travel. وَجَعَلَ لَكُمْ سَرَٰبِيلَ and He put in place for you the kinds of garments or clothing or gear تَقِيكُمُ ٱلْحَرَّ
that protects you from intense heat. وَسَرَٰبِيلَ
And other garments تَقِيكُم بَأْسَكُمْ
that protects you from war, meaning armor. كَذَٰلِكَ يُتِمُّ نِعْمَتَهُۥ عَلَيْكُمْ
That is how He completes His favor upon you لَعَلَّكُمْ تُسْلِمُونَ so you may be in submission. Now it seems kind of all over the place. It started with what? What do you recall? You came out of the bellies of your mothers. Let's take a step back and understand first and foremost that in that first of these Ayāt, Allāh 'azwa jal said that He put in place for you hearing, seeing and heart so you can become grateful. In other words, all of what is to follow is Allāh's way of getting us to become more what? Grateful from what we see and what we hear from Allāh. What we hear from Allāh
should effect how we see things and that should infect--effect our hearts. So there's a progressive relationship between hearing, seeing and the hearts. I'll repeat that, when you hear something, it changes the way you see things. Now that you see it differently, it effects your heart. So every time you see it, there's an impact on your heart. That's the kind of the A-B-C.
ٱلسَّمْعَ وَٱلْأَبْصَـٰرَ وَٱلْأَفْـِٔدَةَ ۙ That's highlighted here and how does it effect your heart? It makes you what? Grateful
لَعَلَّكُمْ تَشْكُرُونَ You with me so far? Okay, now let's begin. Allāh took you out of the bellies of your mothers. You were surrounded by comfort. Allah enveloped you in the belly of your mother. And the time came where you could no longer be surrounded by that perfect life that Allāh had enveloped you and wrapped you in. He had covered you in the bellies of your mothers and He took you out. Now that He's taking you out. Observe! Do you remember how you were in the belly of your mother? How He kept you there? You should think about how a bird is kept in the belly of the sky. Look at that sky hanging مُسَخَّرَٰتٍۢ فِى جَوِّ ٱلسَّمَآءِ مَا يُمْسِكُهُنَّ إِلَّا ٱللَّهُ ۗ Nobody's holding them in place except Allāh. Just like nobody was holding you inside the belly of your mother except Allāh. Next time you see a bird, you remember what you were inside your mom. That bird is at the mercy of Allāh like you were at the mercy of Allāh. That bird, its world is the sky. Your world was the belly of your mother. Now, and that shold--looking at that bird should now enhance your faith. And by the way, even though you came out of the covering of your mother, Allāh gave you a new covering. وَٱللَّهُ جَعَلَ لَكُم مِّنۢ بُيُوتِكُمْ سَكَنًۭا He now covered you in the comfort of your homes. Just like your home used to be mom now your home is your your new mom in a sense, and you had sukūn inside your mom. There was no problem, no issues. And now your home has sakana in it. And even when you travel, you take the animal skin and make homes and cover yourselves by Allāh's mercy the way you did once you were in the bellies of your moms. And Allāh made it easy for you to be covered yet again, even when your staying or your moving along from its wool and its hair and its skin. And I also by they way, even when you're not physically covered I cover you with shadows. وَٱللَّهُ جَعَلَ لَكُم مِّمَّا خَلَقَ ظِلَـٰلًۭا With shadows. And even when you are in the rough, rigid terrain of a mountain and a storm comes, I allow you to go into the belly of a mountain inside caves. وَمِنَ ٱلْجِبَالِ أَكْنَـٰنًۭا And even when there's no shadow and there's no cave and there's no other thing covering you, I gave you the cover of clothing that protects you from the intense heat. That's another covering I gave you. And even when you go to war, I taught you how to make a covering that will protect you from that kind of environment. Constantly protecting you, covering you, protecting you from the heat, protecting you with shade, protecting you, giving you sukūn in the home. Ya Allāh we never left that care of Allāh that was inside the bellies of our mothers now you appreciate when Allāh says you don't know anything. You and I think we were so helpless when we were inside our moms. Allāh reminds us actually, you're still inside your clothes. You're still inside a shade. You're still inside a home. You know you should remember that the bird is still inside the sky. And remember, you're still inside some level of 'رحمة' of Allāh. There's an Ayāh that's not here that unravels, unwraps pun intended all of this. Judgment Day, Allāh says
وَتَرَكْتُم مَّا خَوَّلْنَـٰكُمْ You have left behind all the wrappings We wrapped you in. All the covers We had placed on you. All of them are gone. Subḥānallāh. Allāh 'azwa jal keeping us secured in covering is the theme of this passage. The most obvious of which was the belly of the mother. But the rest of it wasn't as obvious. So He built it progressively, one by one by one by one by one. Subḥānallāh. Okay? So that's that's why Sūrat al-Nahl-yeah. Yeah, that's pretty sweet.
