الحمدلله رب العالمين و الصلاة و السلام على سيد الأنبياء و المرسلين و على آله و صحبه و من استن بسنته إلى يوم الدين اللهم اجعلنا منهم و من الذين آمنو و عملوا الصالحات و تواصو بالحق و تواصو بالصبر أمين يا رب العلمين ثم أما بعد السلام عليكم و رحمة الله تعالى وبركاته The first thing I'm going to do, this is our first case study of symmetrical structures or ring passages inside passages of the Qurʾān. So it's just, it's still at the level of passages. The first example I'd like to give you of that is Ibrahim ﷺ and the Ka'bah as described in Surat al Baqarah. And this is Āyahs number 121 or 122 all the way to 133. So 122 to 133. Okay? And the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to recite or read the translation of all of these Āyāt to you. So you have an idea of the subject matter, and then we're going to try to make some associations. يَـٰبَنِىٓ إِسْرَٰٓءِيلَ ٱذْكُرُوا۟ نِعْمَتِىَ ٱلَّتِىٓ أَنْعَمْتُ عَلَيْكُمْ وَأَنِّى فَضَّلْتُكُمْ عَلَى ٱلْعَـٰلَمِينَ Children of Israel, Sons of Israel, make mention of the favour I showered upon you and I gave you preference over all other nations. وَٱتَّقُوا۟ يَوْمًۭالَّا تَجْزِى نَفْسٌ عَن نَّفْسٍۢ شَيْـًۭٔا and be mindful and fearful of a day on which no person will be able to compensate on behalf of another in any way, وَلَا يُقْبَلُ مِنْهَا عَدْلٌۭ nor will an equivalent ever be taken at all, وَلَا تَنفَعُهَا شَفَـٰعَةٌۭ and nor shall intercession be of any benefit وَلَا هُمْ يُنصَرُونَ nor will they be aided. وَإِذِ ٱبْتَلَىٰٓ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمَ رَبُّهُۥ بِكَلِمَـٰتٍۢ فَأَتَمَّهُنَّ ۖ And when we thoroughly tested Ibrahim, or when His Master thoroughly tested Ibrahim, with certain instructions فَأَتَمَّهُنَّ and he fulfilled every last one of them. قَالَ إِنِّى جَاعِلُكَ لِلنَّاسِ إِمَامًۭا ۖ He said 'No doubt, I am making you--I have made you a leader over all people.' قَالَ وَمِن ذُرِّيَّتِى ۖ 'What of my children?', What of my offspring, my future lineage? قَالَ لَا يَنَالُ عَهْدِى ٱلظَّـٰلِمِينَ 'My guarantee does not extend wrongdoers'. وَإِذْ جَعَلْنَا ٱلْبَيْتَ مَثَابَةًۭ لِّلنَّاسِ وَأَمْنًۭا And when We made the house a place to come back to for people, and a place to find peace وَٱتَّخِذُوا۟ مِن مَّقَامِ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمَ مُصَلًّۭى ۖ And take, all of you, a place to pray by the station of Ibrahim, مَّقَامِ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمَ. ۖ وَعَهِدْنَآ إِلَىٰٓ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمَ وَإِسْمَـٰعِيلَ أَن طَهِّرَا بَيْتِىَ And We had taken a promise, a covenant from Ibrahim and Isma'il, that they should both purify My House بَيْتِىَ لِلطَّآئِفِينَ وَٱلْعَـٰكِفِينَ وَٱلرُّكَّعِ ٱلسُّجُودِ For those who do Ṭawāf, those who go around the Ka'bah, those who do Iʿtikāf, those who stay there, devoting their time into that sanctuary. And those who bow and those who go into prostration, rukūʿand sujūd. وَإِذْ قَالَ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمُ رَبِّ ٱجْعَلْ هَـٰذَا بَلَدًا ءَامِنًۭا When Abraham said, Ibrahim (عليه السلام) said, make this into a peaceful city, a safe city. وَٱرْزُقْ أَهْلَهُۥ مِنَ ٱلثَّمَرَٰتِ and provide its citizens all kinds of fruit مَنْ ءَامَنَ مِنْهُم بِٱللَّهِ وَٱلْيَوْمِ ٱلْـَٔاخِرِ ۖ Whoever of them were to believe in Allah and the last day قَالَ وَمَن كَفَرَ Allah responded, and whoever were to disbelieve فَأُمَتِّعُهُۥ قَلِيلًۭا Then I will let him enjoy, or I will give him to enjoy a little bit as well. ثُمَّ أَضْطَرُّهُۥٓ إِلَىٰ عَذَابِ ٱلنَّارِ ۖ Thereafter, I am going to drag him into the punishment of the fire وَبِئْسَ ٱلْمَصِير And what a terrible place to be, that is. وَإِذْ يَرْفَعُ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمُ ٱلْقَوَاعِدَ مِنَ ٱلْبَيْتِ وَإِسْمَـٰعِيلُ And as Abraham, Ibrahim عليه السلام was raising the foundations of the House, from the bottom of the House, along with Isma'il, رَبَّنَا تَقَبَّلْ مِنَّآ ۖ إِنَّكَ أَنتَ ٱلسَّمِيعُ ٱلْعَلِيمُ Master, accept from us both of us, certainly You are the All-Hearing, All-Knowing. رَبَّنَا وَٱجْعَلْنَا مُسْلِمَيْنِ لَكَ Master, make both of us Muslim before You, submissive before You. لَكَ وَمِن ذُرِّيَّتِنَآ أُمَّةًۭ مُّسْلِمَةًۭ لَّكَ and out of our offspring, a nation at least, a group, that will remain submissive to You, remain Muslim to You. لَّكَ وَأَرِنَا مَنَاسِكَنَا وَتُبْ عَلَيْنَآ ۖ and show us our rituals and accept our repentance. إِنَّكَ أَنتَ ٱلتَّوَّابُ ٱلرَّحِيمُ Certainly, You are the one who continually and repeatedly accepts repentance and is always loving and caring. رَبَّنَا وَٱبْعَثْ فِيهِمْ رَسُولًۭا مِّنْهُمْ Master appoint from among them, a Messenger who comes  from within them. يَتْلُوا۟ عَلَيْهِمْ ءَايَـٰتِكَ he will recite your miraculous signs onto them, وَيُعَلِّمُهُمُ ٱلْكِتَـٰبَ وَٱلْحِكْمَةَ and he will teach them the book and the wisdom, وَيُزَكِّيهِمْ ۚ and he will cleanse them, إِنَّكَ أَنتَ ٱلْعَزِيزُ ٱلْحَكِيمُ Certainly, You are the Ultimate Authority, Ultimately Wise. وَمَن يَرْغَبُ عَن مِّلَّةِ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمَ إِلَّا مَن سَفِهَ نَفْسَهُۥ ۚ Who would turn away from the legacy, and the religion of Ibrahim, except somebody fooling himself. وَلَقَدِ ٱصْطَفَيْنَـٰهُ فِى ٱلدُّنْيَا and We had chosen him in worldly life, in this world, وَإِنَّهُۥ فِى ٱلْـَٔاخِرَةِ لَمِنَ ٱلصَّـٰلِحِينَ and certainly, in the afterlife, he is counted, truly among the righteous. إِذْ قَالَ لَهُۥ رَبُّهُۥٓ أَسْلِمْ Whenever his Master said to him, 'Submit!' قَالَ أَسْلَمْتُ لِرَبِّ ٱلْعَـٰلَمِينَ He responded by saying, 'I submit myself before the Master of all peoples'. وَوَصَّىٰ بِهَآ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمُ بَنِيهِ وَيَعْقُوبُ Ibrahim (عليه السلام) counselled his children, as did Jacob (يعقوب) his grandson, So Ibrahim and Ya'qub, grandfather and grandson, both counselled their children the same way. يَـٰبَنِىَّ إِنَّ ٱللَّهَ ٱصْطَفَىٰ لَكُمُ ٱلدِّينَ My children, it is no doubt Allah, Himself, has chosen the religion for you. فَلَا تَمُوتُنَّ إِلَّا وَأَنتُم مُّسْلِمُونَ then don't you dare find death, except that you are in a state of being Muslim أَمْ كُنتُمْ شُهَدَآءَ إِذْ حَضَرَ يَعْقُوبَ ٱلْمَوْتُ Were you witness when death presented itself to Jacob, to Ya'qub? إِذْ قَالَ لِبَنِيهِ مَا تَعْبُدُونَ مِنۢ بَعْدِى When he said to his sons, 'What are you going to worship?', at that moment he said to his sons, 'What will you worship after me, much after me?' قَالُوا۟ نَعْبُدُ إِلَـٰهَكَ 'We will worship your God' وَإِلَـٰهَ ءَابَآئِكَ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمَ وَإِسْمَـٰعِيلَ وَإِسْحَـٰقَ and the God of your fathers, the Ilah, deity of your fathers: Ibrahim, Isma'il, Ishaaq. إِلَـٰهًۭا وَٰحِدًۭا All of which is one, same God. وَنَحْنُ لَهُۥ مُسْلِمُونَ And we are only, and only, submissive or Muslim before Him. This is a brief, quick translation of 122 to 133, okay? These Āyāt. What I'd like to start off with, this is not unlike the previous section, in which I was telling you the progressive development of arguments, which is also happening here. But my goal now is to highlight something else entirely. What I'm going to try to do is to show you associations. There are sets of Āyāt that have similar subject matter. And I'm going to write those out for you first. I think that's probably the logical way to get to the point where I teach you what I want to teach you. So I'm gonna put some numbers here. I'm gonna write something that can't be written. Okay. So, all right, so there are some associations. Let's first spell that out for you. Before we write the associations. The Israelites are told to be grateful. يَـٰبَنِىٓ إِسْرَٰٓءِيلَ ٱذْكُرُوا۟ نِعْمَتِىَ ٱلَّتِىٓ أَنْعَمْتُ عَلَيْكُمْ وَأَنِّى فَضَّلْتُكُمْ عَلَى ٱلْعَـٰلَمِينَ Don't write anything down yet, just listen. Just see if you understand the association. They are told to be, to mention the favour of Allah on them. That Allah gave them preference over all other nations. Where did that favour begin? With Ibrahim عليه السلام. And actually, by the end of this passage, Allah says, Who would turn away from Ibrahim's عليه السلام legacy but a fool? And when Allah chose them over all nations, He's also telling the Israelites, your father, Ya'qub. By the way, what's the other name of Ya'qub? Isra'il. Isra'il told his children, 'Don't die, except that you're Muslim.' And they said, Of course we won't.' 'We're going to stick to the legacy of your father, Ibrahim.' So there is an association between two sets of Āyāt. I'm gonna put them here. 122 and 130 to 132. In 122, the Israelites are being told. You know, be grateful for the legacy-- for the favour I gave you. In 130 to 132 it's that favour itself. What is that favour? That favour is, you took the same promise from your father. You received the same gift from your father that you're-- that his grandfather gave to his son. Ibrahim gave to Ishaaq, Ishaaq gave to Ya'qub, Ya'qub/Isra'il gave to you. Don't you die! Except that you're in Islam. You see the association, that argument? Okay, so that's the favour on the Israelites.

The favour of Islam on the Israelites. Ibrahim عليه السلام was made leader over all people, yes? And he was told--he asked what about my kids? And Allah said my promise doesn't extend to wrongdoers. Then Ibrahim عليه السلام comes, comes up with a counter offer. He says, Well, can You at least make sure I and my son Isma'il, as we're building the Ka'bah, can we be accepted as Muslim? And can You at least give us some group among our children that are Muslim? And can You just make sure that there's a prophet in their future that will make sure that some of them remain Muslim? يَتْلُوا۟ عَلَيْهِمْ ءَايَـٰتِكَ وَيُعَلِّمُهُمُ ٱلْكِتَـٰبَ وَٱلْحِكْمَةَ وَيُزَكِّيهِمْ ۚ وَيُعَلِّمُهُمُ ٱلْكِتَـٰبَ وَٱلْحِكْمَةَ وَيُزَكِّيهِمْ Can You do that? And so there is an association between the first request of Ibrahim عليه السلام, which is in 124. And then 127 to 129. And these are the two requests of Ibrahim عليه السلام for his kids. Allah says he made the house, وَإِذْ جَعَلْنَا ٱلْبَيْتَ مَثَابَةًۭ لِّلنَّاسِ وَأَمْنًۭا وَٱتَّخِذُوا۟ مِن مَّقَامِ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمَ مُصَلًّۭى ۖ By the way so far, is it making sense, the association's making sense? Okay? We made the house a place for people to come back to and find peace in. Take the station of Ibrahim and make sure that's a place to pray. So you remember who built this house for you, وَٱتَّخِذُوا۟ مِن مَّقَامِ إِبْرَٰهِـۧمَ مُصَلًّۭى ۖ and Allah took a promise from them to purify the house for people who are going to do Ṭawāf and you know, Ṭawāf and Iʿtikāf and rukūʿand sujūd. Recall that was the purpose of building the house, and the reason you should pray, especially at the maqām Ibrahim, is because when they were building this house, as they were building this house, they made duʿā, make us at least Muslim or accept from us رَبَّنَا تَقَبَّلْ مِنَّآ ۖ إِنَّكَ أَنتَ ٱلسَّمِيعُ ٱلْعَلِيمُ So the association I'm making is between Āyah 125, in which Allah says the purpose of the house

and it's building, by Ibrahim and Isma'il عليهما السلام

and then and their prayer for their effort to be accepted.

Okay.

That leaves us only Āyah that is un-associated. And that's 126. And 126 is, make this a safe city and provide its children. Its people. 'Whoever disbelieves,' I'll drag them into, I'll give them a little, then I'll drag them into fire. Okay? Now these associations that I've made for you are they, are they in number order or no? Aren't they all over the place? Yeah? Let's try to place them. I'm gonna say 122 to 132 is group A.

This should be group B. This should be group 125 and 127. Did I do this wrong? I think I got a number wrong. Hold on, we'll fix it. I got one number wrong.

Yeah. This was 128, here. This was 128. This is the 127 here.

Yeah. Okay.

129 and 125 to 127, and then 126. And that's not B, shame on you people. Let's see. And this would be D. Okay.

You guys with me so far? Okay. Now I'm going to erase the text that I wrote.

Make this harder for you.

Good question. Let me find out.

That should be part of the beginning. 122 and 123 are together.

Okay. Now, let's put these in order.

First I'm gonna put 122 and 123. Right? Then I should write 124. Then I should write what? 125 then 126, then 127. And then I should write, 128 and 129. 128 coupled with 129. And then finally I should write, 130 to 132,

130 to 132, Okay? Make this a little bit smaller, so you guys can see.

Okay. Go back to A. What numbers did we find? Okay, so this is A. Yes? And this is also A

right? And B was what? 124? And what else is B? 128, 129. Oops, B.

Let's see. And then 127. And what's D? Do you see what's happened here? A is the beginning, A is the end. B is the second, B is the second last. C is third, C is third last. Let me explain what all of this is. 'A' was Israelites were told to be grateful. At the end, A was also Ibrahim عليه السلام told his children, just like Isra'il told his sons, Don't let go of Islam. Only a fool would let go of it. Okay? The second item was Allah made Ibrahim عليه السلام leader over all people. He said, What about my kids? And later on, he said about his kids, can You please give them a prophet? And can You at least let one Ummah remain Muslim among my children? The two prayers of Ibrahim عليه السلام Ibrahim عليه السلام was given, he was given the responsibility to take care of the House. And here he was making duʿā, as he was building the House. Accept it from us. And in the middle, this is the interesting part. The middle is make this place safe.

Safety. Provision. And Allah said, believe and if not, there's punishment. No guarantees. Right? Now check this out. Where did this entire conversation begin? Israelites. The Israelites have always wanted safety. And they've always considered themselves especially provided for. 'Do you realize why you've been going through so much trouble?' Do you realize why you have had such a tough history? While you've been in exile all this time wandering, humiliated, degraded? Because I gave a promise to Ibrahim that you will be safe, that you will be provided for. But you have to believe for that. The heart of this passage is the secret by which the Israelites were not able to live. وَٱرْزُقْ أَهْلَهُۥ مِنَ ٱلثَّمَرَٰتِ They say God has especially promised us. You know, they say promised land? That was given, the promise that was given to Abraham. They have that narrative. This passage, in its heart, says the actual promise of Abraham is this one. And the reason you're suffering is because you're not making mention of the favour Allah gave you, that of Islam itself. If you did, you would have a lot of favours unleashed. Ibrahim's عليه السلام promise would be fulfilled. But, لَا يَنَالُ عَهْدِى ٱلظَّـٰلِمِينَ So this is actually the symmetrical structure of the passage, where you find the openings tied to the closing, the second to the second last and third to third last. I'll take a less technical approach for the next, In shaa Allah. How much time we have left? Or is it Maghrib already? 10 minutes? I think we can- Oh, boy. How are we gonna do that?

This is going too be hard. Let's do. Okay, let me do this one. This one we can do in 10 minutes because we did it before. Let me pull it up on the screen and we'll start.

Ṣūrah al-Naba The Āyāt of creation. We did them, yes?

وَجَعَلْنَا سِرَاجًۭا وَهَّاجًۭا We're gonna do 6 to 13.

Ṣūrah 78, Āyahs number 6 to 13.

Okay. بسم لله الرحمن الرحيم Because I've translated this for you before, this should be easier this time around. أَلَمْ نَجْعَلِ ٱلْأَرْضَ مِهَـٰدًۭا Didn't We make the earth into a flat cradle? وَٱلْجِبَالَ أَوْتَادًۭا The mountains into pegs? وَخَلَقْنَـٰكُمْ أَزْوَٰجًۭا And We made you into pairs. وَجَعَلْنَا نَوْمَكُمْ سُبَاتًۭا And We made your sleep something that is cut off. وَجَعَلْنَا ٱلَّيْلَ لِبَاسًۭا And We made the night into, garment. وَجَعَلْنَا ٱلنَّهَارَ مَعَاشًۭا And the day into a means of living. وَبَنَيْنَا فَوْقَكُمْ سَبْعًۭا شِدَادًۭا And We made above you, seven intense ones. وَجَعَلْنَا سِرَاجًۭا وَهَّاجًۭا Now check this out. The first two items are the earth and the thing that's most prominent on the earth. What's the most prominent thing on the earth? Mountains. So we begin with a, with a wide view, a vast view with something that really sticks out in that view. When you go to the end, Allah says seven and ten skies and a burning lamp. Is there some similarity? A wide view. What's the view? And then something that really sticks out in the sky, just like mountains stick out on the earth. What is it? The sun. So we've got a similar beginning and a similar conclusion in these passages. Two things are paired up there. Two things are paired down here. Okay? Then Allah says He made you into pairs. He made who into pairs? Us. And similarly, He says He made night and day into pairs. And by the way, the night and day compared to male and female happens other places too. وَٱلَّيْلِ إِذَا يَغْشَىٰ وَٱلنَّهَارِ إِذَا تَجَلَّىٰ وَمَا خَلَقَ ٱلذَّكَرَ وَٱلْأُنثَىٰٓ I swear by the night, I swear by the day. and what an incredible creation, the male and the female. Actually, actually, the relationship of men and women is compared to the relationship of night and day. They need one another. The exhaustion of day finds its comfort in the night. Just like a husband might find comfort in the spouse. The relationship has two dimensions. The dimension of night, in which they are garment for one another. Then it has the dimension of day, in which they have to go out and seek a living and fulfill responsibilities. They can only find, they have to cut themselves off from all of their problems and become you know, their (نوم) has to become (سبات). Cut themselves off and be each other's (لباس) at night. And in the daytime they have to get tasks done. Some people's marriage is just about having fun. Other people marriage is just about responsibilities and they collapse. It has to be a balance of both things. Just like night and day are balanced with each other. On the one end was وَخَلَقْنَـٰكُمْ أَزْوَٰجًۭا
 and وَجَعَلْنَا نَوْمَكُمْ سُبَاتًۭا But the most remarkable thing in this passage is that He said Your sleep was cut off. Your sleep was made something that cuts you off. What does sleep cut you off from? Everything. Your problems, your concerns. The thing is though everything in this passage from beginning to end is paired. Earth is paired with mountain, just like sky is paired with the sun. Man is paired with woman just like what? Night is paired with day. If everything is paired, then sleep should be paired with what? Waking up. Deliberately, all things mentioned in the passage are in pairs, and one thing has been excluded from its pair. But it's pair should be obvious to you. What's the pair to sleeping? What's the message of Ṣūrah al-Naba? Day of judgment. When humanity will wake up? When you say that sleep, obviously the pair is waking up. It doesn't even have to be said. It's a conclusion that you can arrive all on your own. Qurʾān centralizes the notion of sleep cutting you off, and it's obvious to you that after sleep comes waking up. So why isn't it obvious to you that after your sleep in your grave, there's also a waking up. That should be a conclusion. You should be able to arrive on your own. It's like Allah deliberately left it out. So you have an aha moment because you're gonna be waking up. And just like waking up is supposed to happen at a specific time, because even if you're a believer or non believer, you have to get up by a certain time to get certain tasks done. إِنَّ يَوْمَ ٱلْفَصْلِ كَانَ مِيقَـٰتًۭا At a particular time. From (وقت) كَانَ مِيقَـٰتًۭا It's actually supposed to go at-- the alarm is supposed to go off at a certain time. And remarkably, (ٱلْفَصْلِ) also means separation. Just like (سبات) does. Sleep cuts you off, and that waking will cut you off from your sleep. First, you're cut off from waking up. Then you're gonna get cut off from your sleep and you will fall asleep. And إِنَّ يَوْمَ ٱلْفَصْلِ كَانَ مِيقَـٰتًۭا SubhanAllah. Okay? So, this would be my second brief example of, you know, passages and how the themes bind into one another. Some of the most interesting are actually we're going to see in in Ṣūrah al-Yāsīn. And I'm going to colour code those for you. So you can see what's happening in the first passage of Ṣūrah al-Yāsīn. Even though, in my estimation Ṣūrah al-Yāsīn is broken up into 6 passages. We might do all of Ṣūrah al-Yāsīn tomorrow, Inshallah. It's broken up into 6 passages and each one of them is a perfect ring. And all together, all 6 form a perfect ring. So it's actually كُلٌّۭ فِى فَلَكٍۢ يَسْبَحُونَ It's remarkable how Ṣūrah al-Yāsīn is organized so well, I'll stop at this. Inshallah ta'ala, we'll pray maghrib.
