Yeah,

Mhm.

It's been

once again. So a few of you had some really wonderful questions and I want to address them before I get to this topic. What is this aura? It's gonna be a brief topic in child lock. And that is these observations from language and linguistics that I'm sharing with you. Um, I My best attempt is to try to make this as simple and easy to process as possible, but it might give you the impression that I'm coming up with this stuff. The problem with that is I'm not. I'm plagiarizing. I have no shame in saying there are plenty of Allama after series of locally of Taseer Bayani, of traditional two seat of you know, a thought of Sahaba. There are tons and tons of sources that I've read and scoured through to find these gems and collect them. But at the same time, I do want to share with you a thought process that I want everybody here to be clear about in terms of the study of the Koran and analysis and, you know, extracting principles and extracting conclusions really from the Koran something. I want everybody here to be clear about you see, at the end of the day, all we can do with the word of Allah is ponder and wonder and inquire and try to find meaning. There are principles in place. We have to look at the context of the I A. We have to look at the language of the eye. We have to look at what the great sahaba of the Dean of the Messengers, I said, I'm said about this idea. We have to look at our great scholarly tradition, and we have to respect all of those things when we're trying to come to conclusions. But at the end of the day, whatever we conclude, we're going to have to say Allah knows best. At the end of the day, even if I tell you look at how wonderfully home they and you was used and later on you and they was used etcetera, etcetera, right? Look at how wonderful that is. That is simply an observation and perhaps one of the benefits of this usage that I can discern or other Alabama have discerned. But you cannot say this is the only reason a loss at this or this is absolutely why Allah said this. You and I can't say that because we cannot speak with that kind of authority On behalf of a love we can't do it. It's his word is far beyond my intellect and yours. What we are doing, therefore, is we're looking at this treasure, not the entire Koran. I think of every I a as an ocean. I don't think of the Koran as an ocean. I think of every I as an ocean, and I put my hand in and I pull some things out and I say, Hey, look at how cool this is. And even if I pull some things out, this is not the end of what this I A has to offer. You understand this ia what it has to offer the meanings it has to offer. The benefits that it has to offer will continue to come forth. But the idea here is the conclusions I make you are not religiously obligated to agree with. Yeah, I make my conclusions based on the study that I do to the best of my ability, the evidence, as I look at and I find convincing and I come to a conclusion, somebody else comes along and says, Actually, I don't like your conclusion. I think you're wrong over here, here, here and here and we have a discussion about it. And he, at the end of that discussion, still holds his view. And I still hold my view, and that is the entire history of the theater that didn't just start in this hall. That's the history of the series. You understand. It is a human endeavor in understanding and pondering the word of Allah. And it began, actually, with the Sahaba of Brussels, a la La Guardia Jerusalem one IA would come down and it would say, when nausea Trnka, once a hobby, would say, I think I know what that means. Another would say, No, no, I think it means something else. Another would say no, I think it means something else. Another would say, I think it means something else, and they didn't hate each other and say, This one's lost. This one's a deviant that was going to go and um no, no, no, no, no. They realized that a lot, as I would just gave a word that is ambiguous, that inspired the imagination of these people, and it made them ponder and reflect. The idea is we have to ponder and reflect into the Koran. There are different kinds of Wyatt, and this is also really important for Muslims to understand and chronic study students in particular, to understand there are a lot of the Koran that have to do with Nevada. They have to do with a bada bada like Salah and Zika and Hodge. These are timeless. We will not be able to interpret, interpret them in a way to come up with a different kind of Salah or a different kind of Zika or a different kind of judge. Hodges Haj Saleh Saleh Zaka Zaka is done. Sorry, Too late. It's settled. It's permanent. Doeses't matter if it's 2014 or 1500s or it's 2300s. It doesn't matter. It's gonna be the same. Those I ought. They are not subject to re evaluation. You might find some additional benefits, but the core interpretation will remain identical. It will remain exactly, exactly exactly the same. Then there are, I thought, about the ocean. There are a lot about mountains. There are a lot about human emotion. Is there going to be a different perspective on those IATA As time goes by? Yes, that's not a deviation that is the wonder of the Koran. As we continue as human humanity furthers their lens with which they look at the Koran will change. But there are certain aspects to this court on that are timeless that are never going to change. And that's clearly there, the shadow of it, like you know, some people, for example, make the attempt to say, Well, look at the eye of hijab or, um, are we should reinterpret that for modern times, you know, we should. Well, technically, from the language perspective and from the traditional perspective, there's nothing you can change their There's really no room for you and me to change what a law made permanent, do you understand? So what I'm trying to highlight here is something that has been highlighted throughout history. In one page here, two pages there, one volume there, two volumes that I'm trying to stuff it all together. But the other thing I'm really trying very hard to do is not bombard you with names of scholars and dates and books and references because that is not that's for a few of you. But for the vast majority of you, like I said in the beginning isn't actually relevant. And in shallow. Tada as you develop further, you'll see those sources for yourselves. And I will make the attempt to email all of you guys out a bibliography anyway, of where these works are extracted from. Like I said in the beginning. Okay, one more thing about this study. This is not a seminar on why the Koran is a miracle. It's actually not. This is a seminar on why the Koran is beautiful. There's a difference between saying the Koran is a miracle and saying the Koran is beautiful and I want to make sure you understand the difference. Here's the thing. Everything I've shared with you thus far is the result of a lot of exhaustion of the human mind. Throughout history. A lot of people reflected on these words. They thought about them, they analyze them and they wrote certain thoughts down. You understand now, human effort. Is it subject to error? Is there a possibility of error and human effort? Norris. I'll make it even easier to understand. I'll use Dr Simon. Rise words. They're awesome. You go to the ocean with your friends. You guys take a boat. You go in the middle of the ocean. But all of you dive into the ocean. You dive to the bottom. You all come out with pearls. Okay? You look at your pearl. He said this This ocean. Let me tell you why this ocean is amazing because of this pearl right here. Look at this guy. Your friend says you think the ocean is amazing because of that. No, no, no. Look at these. Look at what I found. The ocean is awesome because of these. Somebody else says, forget pearls. Look at what I found at the bottom of the ocean. You guys can't even compare. The ocean's not awesome because of the pearls. It's awesome Because of what I found at the bottom. I don't even have a word for it Yet every one of them who dove in is impressed with what they found and amazed by what they found. And they think that the ocean is amazing because of what they found. I'm not talking about an ocean. I'm talking about the Koran. I am like bewildered. I am amazed by this book because of what I found. Somebody else who's a jurist of hockey, someone who studies law. Somebody who studied Sharia when they studied the Koran. Do they find something entirely different? And are they amazed by it? Sure, a historian studies the Koran. Do they find some incredible things in the Koran, and are they amazed by it? And each one of them says, I think the Koran is a miracle because of language and linguistics. The other one says, I think the Koreans a miracle because of its laws. No, no. I think the Koran is a miracle because of its history. No, no, no. I think the Koran is a miracle because of its science. No, no, no. I think the Koreans a miracle because of its, the tweed says No. Forget that. I think the Koran is a miracle because because because because and each think that this is why it's a miracle. And let me tell you, it is a miracle for none of those and all of those at the same time. In other words, we and you and I cannot limit the miracle of Allah's word to what we think it's too big for that. It's bigger than that. We're limiting it. If we say it's because of this, and because of that, it's much more than we can ever fathom. Then what I've decided to say instead for myself. I don't impose this on you. I've decided to say this for myself. What I personally find miraculous is this. What I find incredible is this. I'm not so sure if you'll find that incredible. But I'd find this incredible, you understand. Now let me tell you why that's important and I'll move on. That is important because if you disagree with me, then you're only disagreeing with me. But if I say my conclusions are the reason for which the Koran is a miracle, then when you disagree with me are actually disagreeing with the Koran. It is perfectly normal and okay, and it's celebrated to disagree with me. It's cool. I cannot speak on behalf of the word of the law and say my conclusions are the ultimate. This is it. You disagree with me or disagree with the Koran itself. There's a problem because at the end of the day, my best effort will still be a human effort. And the word of a lie is far above and beyond human effort. Do you understand? So they have the idea, even a fella to the Koran of hell, a dark moon, the anaconda macaroon. So you can think deeply. So you reflect and ponder. So you wonder. So you exhaust your minds unless said these things, because the Koran will constantly require us to think What is the difference between thinking and knowing when you know something, you don't have to think about it anymore. You already know it when you think, then you're actually struggling to reach a conclusion. Isn't that the case when you're thinking you're struggling to reach a conclusion, the Koran asks us to know, or to think, to think, Because at the end of the day, only Allah truly knows the most we can do is what think and maybe learn a few things and say at the end of the day, that's all we can say. You understand this thing? This is a very important thing. This is a very important point, because for some people, the miracle of the Koran is because of its scientific phenomenon. and when somebody says no, it's not. I can disprove your argument. Then it makes it sound like they disproved the Koran. They didn't disprove the Koran. They just disproved that one person who held that view, you understand? This is why the distinction is really, really important. Okay, so now let's talk about Sarah. What in the world is a Sura? Lord Sura, amazingly enough, comes from the word Sora. There's one of the origins of the word is Sora with a fat cat and so to actually has to do with another essay did really sharp eyesight really sharp view when you're standing at the top of some high place and you have the full view of a city that's also called soda like a long reaching view. Also, the word su su is used for, uh, you don't have to raise your hand. If you've played assassin's creed, then you know about this, uh, there are there ancient cities used to have gigantic walls all around them that are really hard to climb on, except you have to go from one rooftop to another and find a place where you can latch onto something and get to the top when you get to the top and you know an eagle shows up and you get the whole city's view and stuff. But anyway, the the walls of the city, the ancient city they used to build these giant walls because they didn't want to get attacked. Right? So they have those massive, massive gates. Those walls are called soon. Now what that does it actually gives us an insight. We can't call the chapter. You remember that, right? And the salt water also means to climb up to scale up to head upwards, are literally to head up on top of that wall. So all these three ideas are connected to have a view from a high place to be on top of a large, you know, scaling wall. Now what is going on inside those walls? What's going on inside those walls is there's an entire city isn't there, and that city has markets. It has homes. It has businesses and government offices. It has streets. It has human human beings as animals. There's an entire landscape inside that city. There's a cityscape really inside of it. Is the city one thing or just one thing? or just another thing. Is it just houses? No. Is it just streets? No. Is it just? Human beings know there's a diversity of things happening in the city. But the thing is, when you're standing at a high place looking at the view of the city, does it look beautiful? It does, doesn't it? The word Sura seems to suggest that when you look at this view of the city of the Sura, what you're about to embark upon when it's Bakara, when it's Ali Imron, when it's cold or whatever it is, it's like you climbed up and you look down and you look at the escape and it's gonna have lots of different things in it. But somehow everything works together and comes together and forms a beautiful scene. And just like in a city, especially in a city, all the activities of a city are interconnected, kind of like a body. They're interconnected, meaning the houses are in a place, but the houses need construction, so the construction worker is helping build the houses, and the people who live in the house is working. The government buildings and the people in the government buildings are collecting taxes. And this and that and the other. Everything's connected to everything else. There's there's this interconnectivity inside the city. The idea here is the Sura will have lots of different things in it. But somehow or the other, all of those things will be what they'll be interconnected. There's going to be this organic inter connectivity inside of a Sura. Dr Natalie when I had a chance to meet with him and you should know this man. He's written a 50 volume book on female Hadith collectors in Islamic history. 50 volumes you didn't hear me incorrectly. 50 volumes. 2600 women across Islamic history who were Mohadi fat? 2600 women. That's just the ones he could, he wrote on just their life profiles in their work. Just to illustrate the fact that Islamic history is filled with female scholarship. That's as much part of our tradition as male scholarship is, and for some reason in the last 100 years we seem to think that women have nothing to do with Islamic scholarship, and that's bogus. So I just wanted to make that point pretty awesome. Okay, so you just had to write 50 years 50 volumes on it. Crazy stuff anyway, So I was in his apartment. Don't ask me how that happened, but I didn't break in though, So I was in his apartment and we're just chatting and he says, You know what I think about Azura? I think about Azura that I'm standing at the edge of a cliff and I'm looking over and there are trees and there are rivers and there are waterfalls and there are birds flying in the sky and there are clouds and everything is so different. And it would be so boring if I went over the mountain and all I saw was just trees and nothing else. No sky, no water, no nothing. But when these different things different elements are there in a scene, somehow every piece of it works with every other piece, and it just becomes the more beautiful. And that's what a Sula is. I was like, Whoa, I agree. That's pretty awesome, because that's actually indicated in the word Sura itself. Okay, Now what I'm going to have with you is a discussion. That's that was just a little bit about Sora and I will have a talk with you about the beginnings and endings of stories in a little bit. But I want to get to. I want to really negotiate with myself. I want to attempt to cover what I think are the most important parts of the remainder first, and if we have something left over, we can cover that. So the one of the most important discussions I wanted to have with you today is how is the Koran organized?

How is the Koran organized? I wanted to have this discussion with you and in Charlotte to share some insight with you that will help you in your own journey into the Koran. The Koran is made up of how many sorrows again, folks. 114. Sarah's okay. Some of these stories are McKee, and some of these tools are madani. What that means For those of you who don't know, Makki means these are stories that were revealed before the prophets of Allah who migrated to Medina and Madeline means the solos that came after he migrated to Medina. That's what that means. Two thirds of the Koran is mucky. Roughly two thirds you know, 60 something percent is murky and only one third, 30 something percent is modern, and that's how it's organized. Okay, now you would think that the Koran is in chronological order. But the fact of the matter is, it is not. The earliest revelation is missing, according to many accounts. And that revelation is where in the beginning of the end of the Koran, It is way at the end of the Koran and Osama and the 30th Joseph One of the last riot ever given where I at about river about interest and they were actually part of skeletal Bakara, which is where in the Koran. It's actually right in the beginning. So you cannot say that the Koran is in chronological order. You would think it has to have some kind of order. So chronological. We put an X chronological is out of the picture. Okay, second. And by the way, it's not even in the order of revelation. In other words, it's not like what was given to the Prophet Isaiah when he decided to put them in the beginning. Then then then what came then? What came? That one came. It's not in that order. Okay, that's one second. Is it in subject order No, it's not in subject order because the subjects repeat themselves. By the way, do different cities have common elements? When you travel, when you go from one city to another, do you find some common scenery? Come, some common architecture, some common neighborhoods? Yeah. Guess what you're gonna find in Sarah's. You're gonna see every. Sura has a unique personality, but it's some some. Sometimes it reminds you of another city, another soda. And some cities are big and some cities are small. Some schools are big and some schools are small, right? So that that city imagery is very, very powerful anyway, So it's not organized by subject order. Maybe it's organized by size Order. That's not the case, either. No chronological order, No subject order, no size order. Okay. When the Western reader arrives at the conclusion that the Koran does not have subject order, does not have size, Order does not have a chronological order and doesn't even have subject or theme order. Then he arrives at the conclusion that the Koran has no order. Mhm and they've written about this. They've written that the Koran is chaotic, chaotic text. It has no order and shockingly enough. There are Islamic scholars also. Some of them held the view that the Koran was actually and it's popularized. It was it was compiled by the agreement of the Sahaba Little Sahaba, the companions of the Prophet Isaiah, came to an agreement that this should be in the beginning. Bakara next, Next, next, next, next. This was the result of the consensus of the companions. This is actually not from a law that's not part of revelation. What is part of revelation is this what is inside of Syria? But the ordering of them just as a human effort. The ordering of the stories was a human effort I have to share with you. By the way, there has been disagreement, right? There are scholars who believe it's it's divine. It's by Allah the order so that the fact that Fatah is serial number one and Bukhara stolen number two is decided by Allah and others say no. It was decided by the Sahaba. Before I go any further, I have to share with you my view what I am convinced of. I'm seriously convinced of it. I'm actually almost sick to the point of how convinced I am of it. And But I have to be honest with you and share my conviction. You are free to disagree with me. You are absolutely free to disagree with me because scholars will side with the other position as well. I simply don't find their arguments convincing enough. I find the evidence on this side of the aisle far more convincing. I am convinced that the entire Koran is in the order that Allah intended it to be. I am convinced that the order is actually divine. And this hour that we're gonna spend together, Yes, it's going to be long. It's going to be an hour is going to be about understanding why What are the evidence is what convinces me through the writings of our great researchers and scholars. The Koran is in fact, in the order that Allah intends it to be. Why is it why are we convinced the disposition before I go along? I'll tell you one of my heroes in Islamic studies. His name is Hameeduddin Farahi. Many of you don't know his name. He was a scholar of the 18th 18 hundreds. Uh, he died late 18 hundreds and he was a remarkable remarkable scholar of the Koran. He was an Indian scholar who only wrote in Arabic and he wrote a book on the island of on. His book is called Nirvana is Not easily accessible evidences for why the Koran is perfectly structured. That's basically if I was to translate the book proof that the Koran is perfectly structured. That was the title of his book, and he was a remarkable like Arabic scholar. And I told he's an inspiration to me because he's a D. C. And he was an Arabic beast. I mean, the man was hoof, his introduction, man. I read it and I was like, What? That's awesome. It's pretty awesome. It's like Alhamdulillah he he said he let his son Aaron Hunty Isla San Juan, You know, actually, in Iran What a sonic bomb. And while they're in Russia, if he legendary Malcolm, what are 13 assam? That's a lot of American. Um well, hot. I mean, booty billet. Mom. Mohammed Adel Maroussi. Attica. Fertile an arm. While Ali, he was happy. Healthcare. Um, l a model Ali was a young father to a frog. Donahue. Ala Della Ellen Bomb. It was like bang. That's so cool. You know what he did? I have to share with you what he did because it's so baller. What? He did so amazing what he did, he said. He praised a lot. He writes a different praise of a line every one of his books and the prices of a lot that he writes always rhyme. You notice the rhyme and they'll have to do with the book, he says. Alhamdulillah, the one who crafted things in the most perfect way and the most perfect order. The one who made things the most beautifully upright, ultrasonic, a bomb in the most subtle craft. And then he says. And while they're in Russia a dream, a calm, the one who puts things in the most perfect place. Then he says, Well, Salat was Salaam curriculum, and I send prayers and salutations about the one upon the one who was aided by Allah with the most eloquent of all speech. Who's he talking about? The prophecy is the one aided by the most eloquent of all speech, and he does this in his introduction and then says, by the way, this is a book. I wrote it to show you how the Koran is in perfect order. Uh huh. And he's in his first page, he said, the one who created this universe and knew where to place the earth and place the sun and place the stars, the one who knew where to place the fingers of a human being, the one who knew how to place, where to place every portion of my brain, where to put my nose and where to put my mouth does not know where to put the Sura of the Koran. And he left that to me. No, I can't accept it. I can't accept it. It's not. I cannot. I cannot get myself to say that the final word that he gave me, and by the way, and he argues that this I believe the Koran to be if I don't care. He almost worked angrily, he said, I don't care if nobody else believes it. I believe the Koran is the perfect, the best speech ever, and part of being the best speech we all know. The best kind of speech is the most organized kind of speech. Nobody disagrees with that. So how can the Koran be the best kind of speech and it's not organized. That was his first page. And then he said, he will not forgive people who disagree with me. Oh, and I was like, Oh, he dropped it. I don't say that He said that He said that, You know mm from home. Well, anyway, now I want to share with you some of the arguments that he's made that his student, I mean extreme Islam. He also adapted that I've come to find very convincing and that will give you an example. So let's begin. There are three kinds of arguments historical textual and ah observed three kinds of arguments. Historical, textual and served. So let's look at the historical arguments. Historically, the Koran was collected over how many? How many years? 23 years of revelation. The Koran is coming down in 23 years of revolution. Is it being written down as soon as it's being revealed? No, it's being memorized. It's being memorized now. The last year of the profits of cinemas worldly life, he the angel Gabriel came to him and made him recite the entire pool on. He made him recite the entire colon. Twice. The prophecy was not alone. when he recited the entire Koran. Angel Gabriel. He actually had a companion with him. Does anybody know the name of that companion? Hm. Very good. Zaid Ibn Thabit is the first historical evidence. Zaid Ibn Thabit was a witness. He sat there when the profits I seldom recited. What? Not one Surana to summarize what the entire put on. Now let's go to the fast forward. The time of Abu Bakar. The Koran is about to be compiled in book form. Who's in charge of the project? Guess what? Z Devin fabric. Now you tell me, Is it is it possible even to think that he would change the order from what he heard? He heard it from the suicide selling himself. And if the suicide something he was reciting the whole thing. That must mean that is how low wants it and who's in charge? Z and Z has been made in charge of the project at the time of Rothman. The project is revisited and you have to recompile the whole Koran. And there's a panel of people involved. Guess who's in charge of the panel say it again? Is they themselves becomes an evidence that the Koran is in the order that was recited by the loss of the language they use. There's another issue. Oh, no, not B. And then B statistics, statistics.

I'm gonna say the names of five chocolates. Don't write them down. Twix, Eminem. KitKat, Mars Tamron. What was the order?

Well, uh uh huh. Yeah, the shaft. And these are saying that it was M and M first, the Maliki's are saying that it's kitkat. First, there is no edema in the OMA on the order.

If how many stars are there? Thousands. Hundreds of thousands of memorized the Koran. At least thousands of memorize the Koran. And they're coming to an agreement about Let's just say they're coming to an agreement about what the order should be. How many stories are there? Five stories, like five chocolates. How many soldiers are there? 114. How many different variations are possible? Well, the way you calculate that is 114 times what? 113 times. 112 times. 111 Times 110. Uh, there are a lot of sequences possible. Yes. Okay. The fact that you don't have any viable evidence of even a single alternative sequence and the fact that you have one or two Sahaba disagreeing about one or two. Sarahs does not take away from the overwhelming majority coming through a unanimous agreement on one order. As a matter of fact, one of the evidences that is used as one time the profits of La La Jolla, Jerusalem, recited from Ali Imron in the first car and he recited from Bukhara. And the second record, which means he recited from solar number three first and solar number two second. All that proves is you can do that. It doesn't actually prove that that's supposed to be the order. The other thing to think about here is the Sahaba. Let's think about the companions. These people are the most sensitive about keeping Islam pure. Isn't that true? Okay, so they don't want to add anything of their own. They are very careful not to add a single idea of their own to Islam, the Koran that wasn't already established by the Prophet Sall, Allahu Alay Asano. And by the way, if they do have to make an HD had if they have to come up with something else because there's an emergency, there's a need. Will you find discussion about it? At least you'll find discussion because they don't feel comfortable adding something on their own. Unless there is exhaustive what discussion? Overwhelmingly for the 114 solos of the Koran, there is no discussion about why should the order be disorder? The fact that the discussion didn't happen, just like there's no discussion about why should we pray to God for I think five is a better number. What about six records for future? What about You know, Jim, I'm in a hurry. Let's just play one of the car and go home. Why is there no discussion about this? There is no discussion because it's absolutely clear to the Sahaba because they know it comes from the prophet. So once it comes from the prophet, there's no need for discussion. You understand the fact that there is no discussion, elaborate discussion about what the order of this little should be? Something is in the minds of these thousands of companions that we're not getting that they are unanimous that this should be the order and they can only be unanimous without dissent. if they know that this is part of revelation itself. So I don't disagree with the scholars who say that this was a result of the consensus of the companions. All I'm adding is they only had consensus because they knew it to be from a law. They had consensus because they knew it to be from Allah. This is his historical argument. At the end of writing his historical argument, he says the historical arguments are interesting, but they're not enough for me. I'm not convinced by the historical arguments. Personally, I was pretty convinced, but he wasn't, He said. I need more. So let me turn to the Koran and let's see if the Koran itself can tell me if it can defend the idea that the whole Koran is in perfect order. He looks at two places. Allah says in our Elena, you can just write it in. In Sura number 75 85. Easy way to remember. So the 75 and so RA 85. So 75 85 is borage. So 75 a lot as well, just in a in a grandma who called who no doubt about it, let me write that in English for you, so you can tell me what I'm about to say. How it makes sense. I'm choosing strange English on purpose,

our responsibility. It is no doubt to gather it and get it recited. What's the normal way of sandwich gathering it and getting it recited? Or actually, no doubt at the beginning, No doubt gathering it and getting it recited is our responsibility, right? So why do I translate strangely? What's my purpose in translating? Strangely, what happens when you do that? What word comes up? So then I will say no doubt gathering it and getting it recited is

only our responsibility. Allah says in the Koran that the gathering of the Koran is entirely whose problem his problem. He is taking exclusive responsibility in Elena Jammeh, who who he's taking exclusive responsibility for having it gathered and having it recited, which means the way in which the Koran was gathered, allies saying, is an act of Allah. That's what he's saying himself. Here's the other interesting edition. He didn't just say, I'll make sure I get it gathered. What else did he say? I'll make sure I get it recited. Khurana who now I told you in the last year of the profits lifestyle Jerusalem. He recited the Koran to Angel Gabriel. How many times? Twice and dance with them and habit thing came up. That second part. I'll make sure I get it recited the way it's supposed to be recited. I'll make sure the whole thing gets recited the way it's supposed to be. That's enough. That one I have is enough. It's conclusive. It's absolute, but he says, Okay, well, let's add one more discussion to that which was stolen. Number what? 85 And so number 85. Elizabeth says so interesting. But who, uh, Majid feel Owen? My fault. Well, who are Carrano? Majid Phil Owen, My fault. I want to. In order to understand this point, I need you to pay attention to the following. The Koran is called Koran. What is the other Arabic word for corn used in the Koran? Al Khatab. Right. So this is what you hear. Ilya had a Koran has the Koran. All this is in a huddle. Khurana agility. Here, Kwame, when all the talks about the Koran, he uses the word. This has a this Koran, but when he uses the word book, he says, Daddy Calcutta blurry. But he doesn't say had a little blurry. But he says, then you can get up Everybody. He does say one time had a quite a bit, but he says, You know, this is a book Actually, we sent it down. Let's let's explore Why this? The word? This is for what? When you're close, the word that is when you are far is that much clear to everybody. This is close, and that is far. Stay with me. This argument is remarkable. The Koran is called Koran. It's also called Khatab. Koran comes from Kerala, which means to recite. Yeah, so called on literally means something that is recited. Get it. Kita comes from Catawba, which means to write data literally means something that is written. So Koran means something that is recited. And Khatab means something that is written. So when he talks about it being recited, uses this when he talks about something that is written, he uses that Why? Because the Koran is written far, far, far, far away in local food, it is not written right here. It is written way up there, so he says, That written thing that written Document Valley Calcutta, you understand, because of the fact that the word that is used for distance. But by the way, where is the recitation of the Koran happening? Is that happening far aware? Is it happening right here? The recitation is happening right here, so he doesn't say that recitation, He says. This presentation, in other words, the Koran, in the Koran itself, allies describing the Koran and to media. One medium is the written medium. The other medium is the spoken medium. When he's talking about the written medium, what word is used? Which word is used? Get up when he's talking about the recited medium. What's he using? Koran. Now go back. Well, who are Koran? Majid? Follow him. Muffles When you say the Koran. Is that the written medium or the spoken medium? That's the spoken medium. Remember that, he says. It is the It is a majestic Koran. It is in Lohan. Mahmoud, that is in the guarded tablet. Wait. The guarded tablet doesn't have recitation. The garden tablet has what writing. So I was expecting because it's talking about the written preservation of the Koran in low fat foods that Allah would not say. Well, who are Carrano? Majid? I was expecting him to say what value? Uh Majid fellow hang my fools Because ketchup has done also with low writing has is correlated with the tablet you understand so strangely A lot. As they decided to do two things, he decided to say that what you are reciting here is identical to what is in the low. You see that what is being recited here is no different than what is written in the sky. Now lies saying therefore that the spoken is identical to the written. Is that clear to everybody so far? What is it written in? Is it written on paper or is it written on a tablet? It's written on a tablet, and tablets are considered solid. So you don't write on a tablet. You want you engrave on a tablet. Now the problem with engraving as opposed to this You're you're living 4000 years ago and you're writing an email when you didn't have email 4000 years ago. So you had a tablet and you write to your friend I hate you. How did you write it? Like four years later. four days later, and then you decided to Oh, wait, I I forgot to put. I forgot to put E. I heard you.

Can you fix it now? Can you fix it? No. Why not? Because here's how you say that, because it's set in stone, right? When I write it here, I can just underneath, because it's not what not set in stone. When you engrave something, then the order in which you write it. Every word is set. It is immobile. That is the entire idea of putting something in an engraving. It is permanently set in a particular order. By calling the Book of the Law as guarded inside a low, it actually necessarily indicates that is set in a particular order. And then now that that is set in a particular order, he says, the spoken one is identical to the one that is set in a particular order. Why wouldn't it be in divine order? That's his textual evidence. At the end of his textual evidence chapter, he says, I'm not convinced by the textual evidence enough. Mm hmm. I don't know. It's it's good, it's cool, but I need more, he says. the most powerful proof that the Koran is in divine order is that you will find just like you know, when you look at the stars and the sky. When you look at the clouds and the birds, when you look at the perfection of human, the human body, when you look at everything else, you can tell this is the work of Allah because of its order. Yes, He says, I should be able to observe the beauty of the word of Allah because of its order. And that, more than anything else, will convince me that this is in divine order. So I'm going to seek out the order in the Koran. That's what he said. He did it for nine solos. Before he died, He sought out the order of nine solos. Before he passed away, his student wrote at the seat of the entire Koran. It was insured. Uh, it was translated into English, actually from Malaysia. Thank you. I I um they Yeah, very good masala. It's called pondering over the Koran. But I want to share with you one example of it. One example of why he believes the Koran is in perfect order. just one exit, maybe two examples because they're both really fun, so I'll share them with you. The first comparison that will make it sort of is lot number 17 compared with solar number 18 to number 17 compared with solar number 18 is Islam versus Goff. So little Israel is 111. IRS alcohol is 110. IRS. Interestingly, enough, salute to Israel begins with one idea that doesn't end with L. If it's in a who who was semi embassy here, it ends with Ara every other. I ends with an L. If so, how many IRS end with an L. F 110 years and within all 110 hours of golf and within our lives so stylistically they're very similar. They're congruent in the numbers of life now. So little Israel. I want to tell you four things about socialism or two things and then two things. So it'll Israel begins with the words of hand and it ends with I'll hang. The last idea is unharmed. The beginning of certain calf is, huh? I'll hunt. Let's look at the end. Actually lost as well usually can be everybody uh, wait. Let me do something else. Let's just start with some hand. The beginning. So

you've heard this before? Have you heard some kind of love before? Okay, so one begins with Siobhan. The perfection of Allah. The other one sold alcohol begins with Alhamdulillah Holiday and Jalalabad to Yes. So one begins. Kind of describing a less perfection. The other begins describing a less praise and gratitude. The Prophet himself would say so. Pamela, he would say so. Panel A useful mizzen. Alhamdulillah. Oh, saying so. Panel is half the balance. The other thing that balances it completely fills. The balance is what fills the scale is what Alhamdulillah. So the prophet himself would make a correlation between the panel and Alhamdulillah. One begins with soup and the other begins with hand. Let's go further. So, Hana, lady Astrology Abdi The Solar # 17. I mean, you just put it in non crazy order. I don't know how to do it here. Okay. 17. Elizaveta says he took his slave away.

He took the slave away at night. He took him. You know where he took him? He took him to Jerusalem. And then from there he took him up to the seven skies, you know? And then he met with the profits. Islam. Meteorology. You guys know about that, right? So So you took a slave away. In other words, I will put it in. In other words, another language. The messenger traveled to get the message. Okay. In solo number 17. The first idea the messenger traveled to get the message in store # 18.

The message

traveled and to the messenger for they're both about revelation. And one of them, the messenger, is going up. The other one. The messages coming. No. And both of them. He is called the Slave of Allah. Abdullah. So panel here today, Angela Alla Abdi. They're both called in. Both of them are called out. So to Israel begins with discussions about Jews. When Israel. Well, if you talk about Jews and one sort of I guess what you're going to talk about and the other sora Christians Latina. Well, and then the next one, number 18 talks about Christians. Now this is important to know. Remember our discussion about the problem of the Jewish community in Koran, the historical Jewish community, knowledge without action And what was the Christian problem. Historically, action without knowledge, right? You remember that there's another problem. I'll add to the equation. There's a big difference between the Jewish and Christian community in the Koran, as Allah describes the Jewish community, especially their leadership, the ones who knew the prophet and rejected him anyway. He described him as arrogant. He described him as arrogant and the Christians. He described him as humble. So the Jews and Christians are opposites in that the Jews were described as arrogant and the Christians were described as humble. Actually complements the Christians on a number of occasions for their humility. Okay, now let's keep this going. Last I A of Surat al Islam.

The very last words are, uh, Kabir who take me around, you know, when you hear duck mean, what are you supposed to do? Look, let me tell you a story. I didn't tell you why you're laughing. I used to teach at a Sunday school and that our Sunday school these kids man, they don't know anything, But they're so cute. So we're teaching them. And, you know, sometimes they our principal was a lady she was really excited about. These Children have to become leaders, they have to lead. So what she used to do is she decided one day that she's gonna take one of the nine year old boys. He's gonna lead lower today. Okay, everyone Okay, I guess that's a good idea. This nine year old boy does not know how to mix a lot, though. That's the only problem. So he's leading vote or all standing behind him like 200 Children, like four teachers and 200 kids while standing behind him. Okay, a lot. But we're standing in. Yeah, we're going to the gulag. But okay, now he's about to get up from school. He goes, That's a lot more. He says a lot about how to love. Instead of saying I love Hollywood having because of what I love and all the kids are like Mm, Salat continues. We're in the second line now. He goes into the cooler again. Now we're just waiting about what's going to happen. He gets up from school. He goes to see a lot. There are kids falling over like bowling pins like the whole Salah is broken. Nobody can stand in their place anymore. There's absolute chaos inside the question. I can't hold my left or everybody's a lot is destroyed. The principal in the back, the lady who set him, told him to pray. She is furious. She is so angry, like you shouldn't be living in a serious manner. But nobody's listening to her because they're just going crazy, like, you know, that's what they're doing. So she got really mad and she said, No. This young man made a mistake, okay? You shouldn't laugh at him. He's a brave young man. Everybody give him a big, big beer. The beer. The problem was that one kid in the front, he heard the compete all the time like people saying Take meat. And then everybody goes, Hello, Homer. But everybody speaks so loud that he doesn't know what they say every time. So he's confused about what to say because he could never make out what they're saying. After you say Takbeer. So she goes, took me here and he goes, Abu Bakker.

Huh?

So, uh, Sunday School is really great. It's really great. Anyway, what I'm trying to get at there are I want to show you the think of the think of the story like this. I'm gonna draw a picture for you. It will help you understand? Like that story will help you understand a lot about Islam. Okay, So this is this column for 17, and this is the column for 18. Right? And I'm Gonna put here at the beginning of 17. Is so Pamela So, Pamela OK. And the beginning of 18 was what? Alhamdulillah? Wow, The farm change. That's cool. Okay, Uh, then the end of 18 While you should be able to be here, I'm showing you the last words of 18. Don't do shark. What is The Franz way or the simple way of saying Don't do Cher Que se la la ha. So now you shriek is locked in Mama. Wow, Why is it going backwards? But you got it. Don't shirk. Okay? Mhm. Now The end of 17 losses vocabulary, Tequila, which is not what it is. A lot of work. Oh, God. The fond thing here is so bad. Bill Gates. Okay. Now I put this on the on the screen for a reason. I want you to understand. Think of these two Psoras are next to each other. The beginning of one. Then the beginning of the other than the end of one and the end of the other. I want you to think of it like this, like beginning of a beginning of be the end of B and the end of a like a full circle. Write a full circle. What you see then, is so, Pamela, then you see will handle Ella. Then you come to the end and you see, and then you come to the back and you see well, let's talk about so hana la, la, la, la, la, la, la la Just the ends in the beginnings and ends of the stories, the edges of the Sierras. Then the other thing you'll notice about these auras, remarkably, is that in the middle of these two psoras a lot talks about Denise Ryan or talks about Adam Allison, right in the middle of both sodas and the riot are almost identical with melodic artist. Usually, Adama do please. When we said to the Angels makes such data, Adam, They all did so, with the exception of he believes those words are the same in skeletal Israa, solo number 17 and number 18. There is no difference, but the way the eye ends is different, the way the eye ends in solo number 17, says Koala. As Julian Katrina, he said, Should I make such that as someone you made out of clay? In other words, the police became arrogant In Sudan. # 18, he said. Condom in Elgin will be used to be a gym. He wasn't an angel. He used to be a gin, and he violated a last commandment. Now it's interesting to see if you can remember Sura number 17. Did it begin with a discussion about Jews or Christians? Do you remember? It's about Jews Halfway through Allah talks about the police and his arrogance Sooner. # 18 began with who? Christians, Christians. The problem was a lack of what knowledge, And they don't even have the knowledge that, at least, was not in a gin. They think he was in angels. So let's ask to them what? Actually he was agenda. They need knowledge, so the same story is mentioned. But each part, each side is told what they need, what they're missing, what they're missing. Then there's the other thing. You know, the Christians, a good number of them. They believe that the sacrifice that Jesus made on the cross. Their different denominations, of course. But a good many denominations believe that Jesus sacrificed himself and God allowed him his only son to be sacrificed and his blood to be spilled because that would cleanse all of our sins. We have now gained God's forgiveness by the blood of Jesus. And as a result, before this sacrifice, we used to have to cleanse ourselves by obeying God's law, the law of what? The law of Moses. But now that our sins have already been cleansed, we don't need the law anymore to cleanse our sins. So we don't need the law anymore. Okay, so the Christians, many Christians say we don't need to observe the kosher. We don't have to pray certain times of the day. We don't have to eat certain kinds of meals. We don't have to, you know, the laws of marriage and the laws of divorce and the laws that were given to Moses. And they don't apply to us anymore because the blood of Jesus got rid of all the laws. You understand. In other words, they are no longer interested in the command of Allah. They're no longer interested in the command of Allah. They already got the forgiveness of Allah. Had a very interesting conversation with the minister of one time on an airplane. Airplanes are great. Great places to talk. Minister was like I was reciting Koran. I was just next to him reciting Koran and him and his wife, a preacher, and his wife were next to me. He's got a Bible with all the stick it notes in there and everything. And we're I'm flying from Houston to New York. They say next to me, he looks over, he goes, What you got there, friend? And I was like, Where? To God? Oh, Uh huh. He goes, Oh, yeah, tell me about that. So I start talking about Islam. So I was like, Well, do you know about the Ministry of Jesus? And I said, no, I don't know about the Ministry of Jesus. Please tell me. So he starts preaching to me, and I said, Oh, okay. She talked to me about 40 minutes. mm Hmm. Wow. Really? And his wife is really excited. She's the third person there. She's pressing his arm like a very good Come on. We got one, we got one. So he finishes his old things. So he says, What do you say? And I was like, Well, I got some questions I'd sure ask away. I was like, So the blood of Jesus get my sins forgiven. He said yes. He said, Okay, I'm thinking as soon as I land and accept Jesus as Lord and Savior, I'm gonna go rob a bank. Why would you do that? Well, because I'm not sinful. It's already paid for Jesus. Already paid for my sin. So you're saying that I'm okay to sin now? No, no, no, you shouldn't send. He says to me, You shouldn't since I was like, Why not? It's free. It's already paid for. You said it's already paid When he goes Well, if you really have Jesus in your heart, you wouldn't sin. I send them. What's he paying for? Oh,

I thought he's paying for my sins. This was a really good deal until you said I can't actually purchase anything. Uh huh. So we go back and forth a little bit and, you know, we talk about the law. We don't need the law anymore because Jesus cleansed us and all of this stuff, and he's caught in this argument. He's really got really frustrated with me. He got really angry with me, and I wasn't telling him anything about Islam. I was just asking about Jesus. And that's not because I'm a good diet or anything, because I was in a bad mood that day. Just caught me on the wrong day, you know? And at the end of it all, you know what he did? He said, Okay, young man, can I at least pray for you? I was like, Okay, dear Lord, please put your spirit inside. Mohammed. Whatever, man. It's okay. It's all right. This is good. We're all Mama. Let's go. It's okay.

Now at the end, I want to tell you this these two psoras that are next to each other have another really interesting correlation. A lot of it was that he he there's two ways you can get to know a lot. Or actually, I'll tell you, there are three ways you can get to know about. Let's put it that way. You can get to know Allah by his names. You can get to know what love by his names. You can number to get to know a lot by his creations. And # three, you can get to know Allah by his revelations. I'll say that again. Three ways to get to know a lot. Number one. His name's # two His creations and # three. His revelations. What's beautiful about these two stories is at the end of these two psoras, Allah Azza Wa The second last day at the beach are the two the three ways to get to know a lot? A lot says that the second last I have seen the number 17 car gorilla with Rahman. You might call him a lot, called him a Rahman. Whatever you may do, call him. Know that the most beautiful names belong to him, so you can get to know a lot by his most beautiful names. How many ways left To what are those 2? 2nd last? I absolutely, Lasagna says. He says Polo. Can I borrow your ability to be with him? Other than tell them if the oceans were turned into ink to write the words of my master, the oceans would run dry, they would go empty, and the words of my master would not cease. Now the words of Allah are of two kinds. The words of Allah or his eye at his revelations. But the word of a lie is also gun and gun becomes what his creation. So the words of Allah include, on the one hand, his revelations and on the other hand, his Creation be and it becomes, in other words, the three ways to get to know a lot are the second last I of 17 and the second last of 18. They complement each other by the way, Muzadi Saddam's public life is in 17 and his private life is an 18 complementing each other. And one of my favorite expressions of these two I got. If you get to know Allah, were these the last day out? Our second last day? What did I tell you? Second last, I thought if you get to know a lot, then you should not do what you shouldn't do. Shirk. You should not do shirk. And if you want to explain, shipped to a seven year old, it's very easy. There are two kinds of ships. Seven year old version. Okay, second grade version of shark explanation. Either you take a law and you bring him down or you take creation and you bring it up to kind of shake. Which shirt did the bonus to all the Jews do? They took a lot and they said inappropriate things about him, and they brought him. Now that was their ship. What ship did the Christians do? They took a creation and put him to high, which creation? Nissan Nissan. Now look at the Ayatollah's. Oh, just says at the end of pseudo number 17, which was about the Jews last ia cool. Alhamdulillah say hand belongs to Allah. And he didn't take a son William, who can fill milk. He doesn't share his kingdom with anybody. And he has no protective friend that will share in his glory era and keep maintain his greatness. Above all, greatness don't reduce the status of Allah. That is one kind of ship. When you try to reduce the status of Allah, what about the other kind of ship? What is it when you elevate the status of creation? So what? Where is that lasagna says we have to at the end of Rather at the end of sort of, uh, sort of gaffe. Oline. Um and you can tell them I am just a human being just like you. Why is that important to say? Because if you're just a human being, then you should not be What elevated ship should not be done with you. The two solos are perfectly complementing each other multiple ways. They're complimenting each other. One thing here and one thing there. And one thing here and one thing there. I'll give you one more example of that in Charlotte Kalla after this long break, I did take a long session from you.
