Mhm.

So once again

umbrella in fact,

Allah says in sort of Gujarat that if two groups of believers are fighting each other, then I'll describe them as A and B. Are fighting A and B are fighting then see should make peace for us lee who but you know how much peace between them is too long? I'll even remove seeds. So it's all in one line if nbr fighting C should make peace. So if two groups of believers fight the rest of you, which is C should make peace between them first different now for

if A fights be again in other words, you made peace, you brought everybody together. You are the peace negotiators. You brought them together. He said come on guys, stop fighting, shake hands, hug each other done, it's ended, it's finished. You left the room and a started fighting again against B. He says

umbrella then be and C should fight who? Hey, that's the formula right now. Thus far, I'm trying to make it as clear as possible. In the beginning. Was C involved in the fight? Were you involved in the fight? No, you were involved in making the peace. You called the meeting, You called the two parties. Everybody came to an agreement. We're not going to fight any more than one of those parties broke the agreement and started fighting again. Now they are not just the enemy of be there also your enemy because they broke the agreement. Your responsibility is not to fight the one who broke the agreement that comes with the responsibility of being a community. So now you must fight together against a umbrella until it comes back to Allah's command meaning until they until you go back to in a state of peace again meaning a says okay, okay, okay fine peace now. If it does if a stops fighting

for in fact if they come back come back to the negotiations table, they're no longer fighting again for sadly then she should make peace between who and be with justice

and make sure to not to not to be unfair.

It's interesting language how many times in this discussion did the words make peace come up?

How many times did make peace come up twice? Once in the beginning she should make peace then when did it come up again? So you should make peace again. But the second time that it came up the second time that it came up, although I didn't just say make peace between them, he said make peace between them with justice. The first time he didn't say make peace with justice. He only said that the second time. Which is peculiar. If you are the peace negotiator then you are expected to be just every time. I only mentioned justice once and not the other time. You understand that the curiosity here the change in language here. Okay. You see the rest of us the community, everybody, we are naturally neutral. We're naturally neutral. So when two of us are fighting, everybody else gets involved and we solve the fight and who do we who do we side with nobody. We side with peace because we're neutral. Now you invited two of your friends to your house. They were fighting each other. You invited them to your house. They shook hands on it. In your observation. You were the ones who brokered the peace agreement. They leave the house and one of them punches the other one in your driveway. Now you come out, you watch the whole thing happen. Who will you fight against the guy who threw the punch? Now two of you are fighting against the one and then he says okay okay okay fine fine. Let's talk again. Now you come back in the living room when you come back in the living room the second time something has changed the first time around be was angry with a a was angry with be the second time you came back in the living room. Who's angry? Is is the one who did the crime. So who else is angry bees angry obviously who else is angry? The question is why is he angry? Why is he angry? First of all see says I bordered this peace agreement. I brought you to my house, you agreed with me and then you disrespect me by violating my agreement. Second of all the command of Allah is that if you violate my agreement, not only will be fight you see I will fight you to and if you were just fighting weren't you angry when you were fighting. So now you have a tendency because you're still the judge, you're still the judge. There's a tendency that you will now side with B more than you will with A. Because you were just fighting alongside be against A. I know there's a lot of abc is here. What am I am I making sense here? Okay, so the second time around you're supposed to be the peace negotiator again. But there's a tendency that you have a bias now against A So you have to be told this time when you make peace, make sure you do it with justice because there is a danger that you will be unfair for belatedly were accessible. Make sure you do it with justice and make sure that you are fair. Now this makes sure not to be unfair and justice. This sounds like the same thing. It sounds like the same thing. Being being just and not being unfair is the same thing to us. Why? Say it twice over like this. I need you to understand the difference between two kinds of words used for justice. There's adam which is justice and there's this which is the lack of injustice. It's literally what that means is the lack of injustice. Okay. But there's another difference between these two words. Adele is open, public, transparent and kissed is public or private. That's a big difference between I didn't list the court is called. Why because it's open, it's one of the reasons it's called our data. Okay. No the first time around you were told to make peace between them now imagine who's fighting. By the way, Muslims are fighting each other in the Iowa Muslims are fighting each other and by the way they're not even Muslims you have to assume that everybody is not just muslim their movement. You don't get to call someone a not in this idea. Don't even just get to call the muslim. You have to call them moment in other words, you don't even get to judge their faith because there's a tendency that when Muslims are fighting, they call each other names. Right? So love protected that tendency said no. Even if you have a fight there's still a movement and you're still a movement. Watch it. You see Alice says these things because these are real problems and we violate them. And if we paid attention to Corrine would realize what we're doing. But anyway, come back to the problem to Muslims are fighting each other. Is that an embarrassment when to Muslims are fighting each other. Absolutely. So when you are negotiating the peace between them. Should it happen openly in front of everyone or privately it should happen privately called him into your house into the living room, into the conference room at the mustard or something and you go and you privately figure things out. Listen this is what you did. This is what you did. I don't want to bring your issues up in front of the entire community. I want this to be private so that we quietly deal with this problem and we move on with life. Okay now it was done quietly but a troublemaker. A he comes out of the meeting and even though he agreed inside the meeting that everything is okay, he came out of the meeting and said you don't know what happened inside there man. It was private. They're all against me. I'm the victim here. I'm going to start fighting again. And he took advantage of the fact that the meeting was private. You see if the meeting was public, what would happen? He cannot say, well you don't know what happened in there because everybody knows what happened in there because it's on Youtube. You understand it's it's public but the fact that it's private was important. He took advantage of it. So the next time you bring him after the fighting is over and he says, okay fine let's negotiate again no longer. Can you negotiate privately this time? Even though it's super embarrassing in order to prevent future problems this time when you bring them back to court, this has to be what open because he can't be trusted anymore. So it has to be open. Also you can't be trusted anymore because you're angry. So it has to be open. This is why was used make peace between them using open public transparent justice. This is going to be important by the way in the justice system when you have a trial that is private closed doors, no cameras, no journalists, no recordings, anything. Do people trust those trials or no, no. Why do you have to hide it? If you hide it there must be something wrong, there must be some kind of injustice going on. So align the IA describes when people want to solve their problems privately, give them that chance, but if they violate and they're hurting others and they're doing crime then you have to bring it out in the open. This is an important principle for the muslim community. Why? Because we have people in our community sometimes who do terrible things who are damaging community but we say no, no, no protect your brother, keep it private and they get away with it once and twice and three times and four times and we still try to keep it private the first time. Keep it private every other time. What? Open up and open to the public. It has to be in public. This is the formula is teaching us from solving community problems but then I want to show you this oxygen okay do justice publicly. Why say oxy oxy to actually means and be fair public or private and make sure you try not to be unfair. In other words l kissed is actually more about the individual and ladle is more about the, the overall, the communal, so lie saying at the individual level, you all should be fair to begin with. Fighting would not have happened if one of you didn't have a twisted moral compass. If one of you did not have a bad sense of justice, none of this conflict would have happened. So overall, you should emphasize the need for personal responsibility in the community. Everybody has to stand up for their own standards of justice. It's also important that Allah did not say in Allah Allah loves those who show justice publicly. Actually, Allah loves those who are just publicly and privately. That's why Mark sitting at the end. Now let's talk about our sense of justice, my personal sense of justice, Your personal sense of justice. Your parents are sometimes paying for your college and university fees. They're paying for them. You're getting the education and your parents are paying for them. Now you're going to class late, you're not doing your assignments. You don't care about your exams, you don't care about attendance, don't care about anything. Nobody finds out and finds out. Your mother doesn't know you're missing classes. You're father doesn't know you're watching movies when your mother calls you and you're at a restaurant with your friends in the middle of your supposed to be in class, but your restaurant at a restaurant and she calls you and you pick up the phone mom. I can't talk right now. I'm in the library not realizing that your mother is sitting at the next table.

You have to hold yourself to a higher standard of justice. The riot of the Koran are not just about recitation in the mustard and that's important. The heart of the Koran is about our, about how you live your life, how you spend your money, how how how diligent and how honest you are in your workplace. Are you earning your money or are you just sitting there at the desk collecting a paycheck? Are you actually doing what you're supposed to do? Do you have the work ethic? You know, did you just get your job because you have some connections and then you're just sitting on vacation all day, you know, surfing the web. I even tell people don't listen to Islamic lectures when you're at work, you're not there to listen to Islamic lectures, you're there to do work. No brother, I watch your videos all the time at my job. I was like please don't watch my videos at your job. Don't drag me into your problems bro, Just do your job. No, but it's Islam. Yes it is. You wanna watch Islamic lectures, watch them at home. Work is for work to stop. Little love starved woman said I shouldn't learn Islam. Yes. When you're being paid to do work, you shouldn't be learning Islam. You should be doing work because that's what you're being paid to do now unless your boss comes to you and says listen, I know there's no work right now, we're in between contracts a little bit low season in the middle, so relax if you want to, you know, you can tell your boss, hey boss until there's some work you mind if I listen to a lecture or two and your boss says no problem, okay, no problem. You're not because you didn't cheat your boss, you're not hiding it. You didn't, you know all tab every time he walks by you. So it's, it's clear, it's open, have a sense of justice at your work and your school, you know, some of the, some of the younger kids here, they just lie man, they just lie. Did you do your homework? Yes, Did you pray? Yes. You just say did you? And they just say yes before you even finish did yes, I did, I did it. What we'll do, I said homework, what did you do? Well do with homework, homework to do? You know, and you can tell when kids are lying because they're really strong in their answer I did, I did, I really did. That means you didn't the, you don't have to go out of your way like that unless there's a problem like your kid comes in and says I didn't punch anyone, okay that you should know what just happened. So

I want to give you an example of beautiful word usage and is just one example and Shaolin will conclude this section, we're making good progress I think

has used one of the words in Arabic for purification. So the idea is translated in general english translation. So Allah may cleanse those who believe so let me cleanse those or purify those who believe in, Let me give you a little bit of context to the idea. So you can appreciate the word for cleansing here, you could use

like you heard before, I'm sure right, you can use a number of words for cleansing but also uses specifically at now, this is about the battle of and Muslims suffered some great losses in the battle of were murdered and the prophecy salam was knocked unconscious and the Muslims had to retreat up the mountain if that when you were climbing up the hill and weren't turning back to even look at anybody, this is the, this is the horrible scenario of and Allah says that he put us through this scenario so that he could cleanse those who believe one of the purposes of the difficulty of good was sala, could cleanse those who believe. Now interestingly the word that's used for cleansing that you will not see in translation. Adam Hayes is actually used when you purify gold when you purify gold. Now gold has impurities so you have to melt it, you cannot just use a sponge and purify gold, you have to melt it and turn it into liquid. And the impurities that are deep inside the metal come out to the top and you know turn into froth and and wither away. Then you get pure gold. You understand now this is different from cleaning dishes or cleaning clothes because cleaning dishes and cleaning clothes is obviously a lot easier than cleaning gold purifying gold. You understand because you have a lot of intense heat that's involved interestingly enough by saying this, Elias saying believers cannot be cleaned unless they are put to the flames, right? If you want to cleanse the believing community, they have to be put to the flames and the flames in this case are the flames of war. So you had to be put under intense temperatures in order for you to be cleansed. Also in the by using this word, it is as though Allah is saying that what is being cleansed of impurities are being removed. Remember when I told you in the story of and medina that in difficult times hypocrites expose themselves. But if you and I have a difficult time. Yes, I did. The believers exposed the the hypocrites exposed themselves in the hood. Absolutely, they did. In other words now lies calling the hypocrites impurities just indirectly through the same imagery allies saying that the hypocrites are and impurity and the only way this and also he's saying that this impurity is deeply embedded inside the muslim community. And the only way to get it out is to really put the muslim community enters a very difficult, intense temperature, difficult circumstance and they will just rise to the top and disappear just in one word. But the other awesome thing here is not only by using this word did a law called the hypocrites filth, he also called the Sahaba Gold. Hmm If you did so much, just by using the right word for cleansing, the believer's. Okay, So let's move along. Oh this is gonna be fun. And I have four sections here. Oh I have a lot more sections. I'll pretend I have three sections here. This is section one, this is two, this is three. Don't be offended for what I'm about to do with you. Okay, bear with me this side of the class. This over here. People who failed,

Don't be offended this side of the class. People who passed this side of the class, My teacher's assistants. They're not teachers, are my assistants. So these two sides are students, this one in the middle, are my assistance or let me even take you one better. This side failed. These are my assistants. These guys have an exam tomorrow. We'll see what happens now. You guys did what you failed. So I'm yelling at you. Hey, how could you fail? I prepared you so much. I gave you so much review. I gave you so many answers. I even gave you the answer key during the test, How could you fail

while I'm talking to you. Can they hear me okay? And I turned to you and say, can you make sure they do their homework? Why am I telling you that? Because your teacher's assistant, your job is to assist me in teaching them. Can you make sure they do their homework? Can you make sure they don't fail the next test? And I know it's not your fault. These people are losers.

Then I turned to you. We'll see what happens tomorrow.

Because there are three sections. One of me as a teacher, I'm actually having three conversations, aren't I? One with you, One with you, One with you. But even though I'm having three conversations, can all of you hear me? Yes. And is it having an effect on each group? Even if I'm not talking to you? Is it still affecting you? As I'm yelling at them? What's happening to this group? They're terrified. Oh my God! He's gonna yell at us tomorrow after we fail. This group is nervous. Did they fail? Because we didn't do our job. You understand? So there's a lot of dynamics happening in the classroom. This is the scenario of teaching in teaching the teachers, having conversations with multiple parties. I want you to understand that the Koran Allah is teaching us, which means there are multiple parties being addressed at the same time. And what's amazing in the Koran is sometimes multiple parties are being addressed simultaneously in one eye in one island. Let's go through this a little bit. A lot of religion says this time I'm gonna change the groups This time there are two groups And this is Group one This is Group two. Don't be offended. This is Denise Ryan

and these are the Muslims, Denise Ryan. What's up? No listen

I gave you shade with clouds. Well silva and we sent onto you manna and Salwa

eat and drink from the things that we provided you. That's what I said to you. Eat and drink. I gave you clouds. I gave you manna. I gave you Sandra. I said eat and drink. Get it

muna

moon. They didn't commit a crime against me. They only committed crimes against themselves.

Half of the Iowa alot is talking to who when it's slightly the other half of the Iowa who's a lot talking to Muslims. How do I know because half the Iowa's uu uu then is they they they they if the whole, I was about beneath you will find you the entire time. Allah is talking to but who's listening. He knows who's in the room. Who else is listening. When Allah talks to the Muslims there listening and Allah is yelling at and he's telling them. I give you so many chances. I did so many wonderful things for you. What is wrong and you know what, I'm so angry with you. I don't even want to talk to you anymore. I'll tell you guys you guys are up next, I give them a chance. You're up next. They didn't wrong me, They wronged themselves. What am I trying to tell you if a low tolerance to you and says they didn't commit a crime against us, they committed a crime against themselves? What is Allah telling the Muslims, Allah is telling the Muslims you better not do the same thing because I'm going to give you a bunch of stuff now I'm gonna give you a lot of gifts now and if you those gifts you better watch it. You know what this does, it changes my perspective on the study of history altogether. Dr does not talk about Ben Israel so I get to say ah to know I hear about and I got terrified because half the I was about and the other half was about me and you and Allah is saying watch it, you're next, it's your turn now let's see what happens. Is it within the island, you gotta look out for these shifts. This is called, that's the technical term, you can call it a transition meaning a lot goes from you to he you today they to us I two we he switches and those switches are you gotta keep up, you gotta keep up, I'll give you another one, this is an awesome one. This is a this is this is a transition about time travel. I don't know if I'm going to be able to do my job explaining this one to you. But if you get it, you will really enjoy it. I hope I'm clear in explaining this one to you. The Ia begins with what will happen in jena it begins not with Dona what with and it doesn't begin with you. It begins with they it begins with they so it's not you, it's someone else.

They will be eating fruits and they will be enjoying themselves and they'll be smiling. Big smiles on their faces like they've had mangosteen or something and they're just smiling because of what Allah has given them and he has protected them from the punishment of the roaring flame. They feel secure and protected and happy you are they they now we're in the future. So it's they and it's in the future which means it's two degrees of distance from you. One sense of distance from you because it's not you, it's someone else second because it's not now it's in the future. So it's distant in terms of time and space, it's far from you. Then immediately honey and eat and drink carefree. Not they will eat and they will drink carefree. He says eat and drink carefree. When do you say eat and drink? Do you say that to someone who's there or someone who's not there. Someone who's there, but Allah is talking to you and me and he wasn't talking about me, he was talking about someone else whose agenda and all of a sudden he says to me eat and drink carefree. Why? Because he forced me in this Ia he forced me to imagine myself in Jenna and Ally is telling me to eat and drink carefree in a split second, the Iaea began and I thought those people in general, they're so far from me, I wish I could be from them halfway through the eye and he doesn't even

and it will be said to them. No time for that. No, no, you you eat and drink. You eat and drink carefree Now. I am imagining myself in june 9 11 telling me to eat and drink carefree. Don't check for the halal label or nothing. I just need now. Am I imagining myself in the present or in the future? You got to keep up with the times here. I'm imagining myself in the future. What does Allah say to me in the future? He says to me eat and drink carefree balloon eat and drink carefree because of the wonderful things you used to do. So let me mention in the future about what I used to do in the past, which is technically the present, isn't it? Because if Allah is saying in the future, you did a great job in the past, the past must mean right now. So I just traveled all throughout time and space in one area. I traveled through it and by the time the I was done, I realized something Allah wants me to visualize myself in jena. And as I am listening as I'm eating the fruits of gender. I am being told. This is what you this is because of what you did when right now. If you understand the IA you put yourself to work when? Right now now what is the gift of a line in the ira, the gift of liars. You get to eat and you also get to what drink and it's also carefree. But that's not the real gift. The real gift of the idea is you will be talking directly with Allah a lot will be telling you you did a great job. You know when your teacher walks over to your desk and says good job for the teacher. It's nothing for the students. It's everything. Just one little compliment. You don't even know what one little compliment can do one little thing. You know, we think we shouldn't praise people. Some people have this twisted understanding of the religion. You shouldn't praise people to stop, only prays a lot. God, you're so psychotic. Why can't you be normal? It's okay to praise people. Don't go crazy and crazy people like you're so amazing. Like don't do that. But you can say nice job. I like what you did. That's that's amazing. That was really good. I really appreciate your help etcetera. You should praise people and thank people, you should do it. It's a part of what we do. You're supposed to do that. So now, you know, I'll tell you a story. I myself I did not see myself going into the teaching profession at all. I was into technology profession. I was doing okay. And one time I did the, you know, in a mushroom group, it was four people and they asked me to give a presentation and I did. And one brother that I really looked up to because he was actually a mentor to me in technology. He was a four point oh G. P. A graduate out of the Master's program at M. I. T. Thanks. Yeah. And he I did my presentation for five minutes. He said, you know what? You're a natural teacher, you shouldn't consider teaching. I'm telling you. One of the big reasons I turned to this profession was those few words. There's just so we can write this. You don't know what some words can do, especially when words come from someone you admire. You don't know what they can do for you. You know, so don't be cheap in giving compliments. Don't be cheap in giving compliments, especially to your kids. You know, especially the friends, especially to those who look up to you if you see something good in them admire it, accepted encouraging, you know,

eat a drink. You did a great job just to hear from a lot that I did a great job. Mhm. I don't know if I want to eat anything anymore.

You know. Okay, now let's go on the scary side of things. This kind of switch can also be scary.

They said Rahman took a son who's there, Who's they? Questions. They said Rahman took us. And now when you say they that's far away. It's not you, it's it's far away. But you know there's a switch that is about to happen. You have come forward with something hideous. You have said something monstrous. Not they have said something monstrous, but you have said something mantras. So why switch from they to you? Let me explain this one to you. So I have a class and in the class there are two students who cheated on the test. Okay. Two students cheated on the test. I know which ones because their answers are exactly the same. In the same handwriting.

And they're sitting in the back together. I walk into the class with my stack of tests. I put it on the table. I do my dramatic introduction. Some people think they can get away with cheating. They think that I don't know what the same handwriting looks like. They think they can sit in the back row and I am blind to their behavior. They they they they they they they they they they they they they they they now the guy in the back he says he doesn't know what happened. He said they he's mildly nervous but not really realizing that I actually know it's him and I'm not giving it up yet. I'm not saying you over there. I'm just using what word they because I'm keeping a distant, he's he's a little scared but still hoping it's not me. But then in the middle of the day I say said, should I, can I talk to you for a minute? Oh, the world comes to an end. Mhm. You know, it's a terrifying thing when your name gets called after the day it goes to a U U. Two over here, You two my office now. Oh my God, it's terrifying. I love it. I love it. It's so much fun. I love one of the great, one of the reasons I stayed in the teaching profession is the ability to psychologically torture students. It is one of the most satisfying things you will do in your life. I have to share something with you here. You know, when you, when I give an exam, I like to walk around the student, he's writing his exam, I just walk over and I look and he puts his elbow up and I look and he puts it more and put some more and puts it on and put it away, put it, you know, And then here's my favourite one. You look over the exam and you take a deep breath and you make sure they hear it ah and just walk away with your head shaking. Mhm.

It is amazing what happens next. Okay. Everything. Here's one of my favorite ones. It's a student acting that you know it's a recess. Kids are the guys are like you know playing table tennis or something and I walk over and I say Hassan, can I see you in my office? Ah is everything okay? I'll start um in charlotte. Was he in the office? Hudson comes into my office, have a seat actually and make sure he has a seat. Then I sit on the other side and I have some empty papers that I go through actually. I think you might want to close the door. You don't say it at first, you wait, you let him get a little more nervous then you say, I think you probably should probably close the door. He closes the door. You're sitting there um start start. Is everything okay? Um Actually I thought I I wanted to let you know I was speaking with your parents about this. You're doing a fantastic job, I'm very proud of you. Ah Okay now could you go and call Kareem for me?

The joys of teaching, they tell you, you know, but in the Koran allies teaching and sometimes a lot talks to people who don't realize that what they're doing is super serious and they're taking it casually. So he introduces the subject with they so they still feel distant that this is warning, this is a warning that is not about them. Then immediately he drops a you so they get oh it's about me what you know so this is you know

you know they should deny what we gave them. Go ahead, enjoy yourself. You'll find out soon enough you will find out. So it goes from there to you. These switches in the Koran by the way these kinds of switches when you do them in english class, your teacher marks it all wrong If you start your paragraph with I use I the whole time. If you started would he use he the whole time? If you start with we use we the whole time. Isn't that what you get? Corrine has its own standard. Its own standard. If you try to compare it to any other standard you just won't get the book. You just don't get it. You don't want get what he's saying. Now I want to give you one last example of this transition but a visual example of transition. A visual example. This one is you have to just imagine that there's a camera that comes with the ill Bari Bari. He Allah is the one who makes things easy for you on the land. He facilitates travel for you in the land and in the ocean. Now when he says the land and the ocean, what do you imagine basically you imagine the shore or a harbor or a beach. Why? Because you want to see land and you want to see ocean until the time when you board onto ships. Now when you're boarding onto ships, you're obviously going from the harbor from the dock and you're loading yourselves on to the ship. So you're, the ship is still kind of connected to the land. What serena be him? And then the ships start sailing away with them with good wind. Now what do you imagine you imagine the harbor? It's a sunny day. People have loaded onto the ship. They sail away and the winds are nice and the winds are getting caught and the ship is moving quickly sailing away. It's a beautiful scene and they're catching extra speed because the winds are good. Okay

and they're very happy with the winds. What a beautiful scene, sunny skies, gleaming, you know, sunlight in the water, beautiful breeze. Everybody's happy. This is going to be the most amazing cruise ever. This is the greatest vacation I've ever had out of a sudden all of a sudden a tornado hurricane kind of wind attacks them. It comes at them? The wind, the skies turned dark. The winds get rough. The ship's going in every direction and then the winds, the waves start hitting the ship from every direction. Are they right by the land Now, are they deep in the ocean now? Okay, now listen,

let me go back. Ally is the one who made ease for travel in the land and in the sea for you, You say you're for you. You is close the word you is close the word they is far until you were boarding on the ships. The word you means what you are still close. Well be him then does then the winds or the ship's sailed away with not with you. But with then what just happened you're getting further away from land.

Then the wind came, they came at the ships and the waves hit them. The waves didn't hit the ship. The waves hit the people

which means the waves are coming and people are on the ship and they're getting smacked by a wave and they're just this way and that way. But are they near or are they far? They're way out there in the middle of nowhere and their distances captured in the word they you see the idea began with the clothes which was you and it switched over to they now they're in the middle of the ocean and and they realize that they are going to be overcome. There are going to be overcome by these waves. One more tsunami. One more giant wave and they're done. It's over because the last one destroyed so many things. The next one's gonna finish everything off then that I will love now the camera is on the ship and these people are realizing that they're about to die and they turned to a lot making their religion sincerely to him for the first time. there is no distraction between them and their dogs, they're not thinking about a movie while they're praying. They're not thinking about a song while they're praying. They're not thinking about lunch or dinner while they're praying. They're not distracted by the next guy who's still waving his finger while they're doing to the hood. They're not looking at the guy who keeps scratching his beard

like none of it this time. The dog is pure for a lot. No other distractions and you would think at a time when the waves and the ocean and the people screaming so many things to be distracted by. But for the first time when death became so close, none of this was enough to distract you sincere pure. Just for him when they do this. What do they say now let brings the camera into the guy who's making dough on this ship whose about to drown. His water is up to the neck already. He was making a lot like this And he says letting and jade. If you were to rescue us mean Hadi from this mess, we will absolutely. We swear to it. We swear to it absolutely ah lot. I I promise. I promise. I promise. I'll be so grateful. I'll be from the kind of people that are grateful. You see they don't say

we will not be, they don't say we'll be grateful. They say will be from the grateful, there's a difference isn't there. When you say we'll be grateful. You're talking about yourself when you're saying we'll be from the grateful means when they used to be on land. They knew people that were grateful but they never wanted to be like them. Yeah a lot. I will be more like my brother now. Yeah. I'll be I'll be more like my mom. Now. They had examples. They didn't care about them until the wave came and they said I wish I was more like my brother right now. You see that. But you know what the camera, I just want you to keep the camera. The camera showed you land then it showed you see then it showed you a ship then you showed you you boarding on the ship. The camera was close to you then this camera stayed on the land and the ship is going away. Then from far away you can see that waves are coming from every direction. Then the camera zoomed in on top of the ship and he noticed some people are making blah and it zoomed in so close that you can actually hear their dot despite all the noise on the ocean. And they're asking Allah that they will be from among the grateful these camera transitions in the Koran are I mean I'm only able to say camera because when you appreciate good camera work in a movie, you're amazed because these movies, these scenes they take you from one to the next to the next to the next and you're just amazed at what happens right? And these transitions. This is 1400 plus years ago. This camera work inside. An idea. One of my favorite examples of this kind of motion imagery imagery in the Koran is actually in sort of man. That's what an amazing night says

woman as what is a little absurd

one. Eye out and look at the cameras, Muslims are surrounded in the battle of the trench. You remember that The enemies are coming from two sides north south, They're coming from two sides unless says they came at you from above you and from below you, they came the enemy came from above you and from below you. Now the problem with saying that is if you're on the northern border, you can only see the army coming from there. If you're on the southern border, you can only see the army coming from there. You cannot see the both both ends of the army's coming at the same time. The only view that can give you both approaching at the same time is what kind of view aerial view of love provides the aerial view first, the armies are coming from both sides, but then that camera moves in and says, it moves in so close, he says, what is a when I XyZ were petrified, you wouldn't even blink. You saw the army's coming and you're like, how close is the camera? That's pretty close. That's all the way to the face and I can tell you're not even blinking. Then he says, now look at the look at where the camera is gonna go well and your hearts were jumping up into your throats. Mm hmm. The camera went even closer. Huh? What's going on inside of you?

Then the camera goes deep inside your soul

And you were making all kinds of assumptions about Allah you were made. You are having all kinds of thoughts about a lot. A lot. Even recorded the thoughts you were having the sequence of this. Ia it began with a view of what two armies aerial view. It went to the face, it went to the heart, it went to all kinds of thoughts that were being had and you know what's beautiful to the eye right before

was watching with full view, what you were doing. And then the next day I'll let me show you what my fue. Full view looks like every angle you can imagine inside and out. This is on the transition of the Koran. Okay. You guys doing okay on the attention span. I think you should be fine. Yeah, Okay, okay, Okay. Not that it would make a difference because I would still keep going and not care at all. I will be selective because our time is running out and I have to finish certain work. So I'm gonna be selective in what I give you um okay, let's do this one inshallah,

Allah is the walleye of those who believe those who disbelieve their wedding is whether what these are to who let me describe, Willie to you for a second. Willie is a friend who wants to protect you. Simple definition, Willie is a friend who wants to protect you. Well, he is not a friend who actually protects you is simply a friend who wants to protect you, who has the intent of protecting you, has this desire to protect you. Okay, if he's actually protecting you, he becomes mola when he's engaged in the act of protecting you, then Moola, If he's expressed the intent and the power to do so, and he's got the potential to do it, but not necessarily doing it because it's a So you don't actually act it out. It's really okay. Now, in this

there are two comparisons. The comparison is between Allah and the believers versus who the hood and the disbelievers. You see that right now, I want you to understand that both of these between Allah and us. There's a relationship and that relationship is that he is our between and disbelievers, there's a relationship and that relationship is what the truth is there, What is a Latina girl photo, That's how it is. Okay now, I need you to think of it this way in every relationship or at least in most relationships. There is primary and secondary. Like the boss is primary and the employee is secondary, the creator is primary, the creation is secondary, the teacher is primary, the student is secondary, right relationship. There is primary and secondary in this Allah is the one of those who believe whose primary and secondary a large primary and where he is or rather believers are secondary in the case of disbelievers and whose primary, who is secondary is primary, the disbelievers are secondary. Now when Allah says, Allah is the willy of those who believe who was mentioned first, the primary or the secondary. Allah mentioned the primary first allies the wedding and then the secondary is those who believe they are mentioned second. If you look at the alternative the disbelievers side who's the primary again to who but a lot already set an example when you, when you give this relationship, you mentioned the primary first and you mentioned the secondary Second. How is it then that when it switched over, Allah did not say like

just keep the same, mentioned the primary than mentioned the secondary rather Allah said instead.

In other words, those who disbelieve in this strange case, Allah switch the order of the sentence and instead of mentioning the primary in the beginning, he mentioned the primary at the and right. So this is an example of how life is actually changing the sequence of the language of the idea on purpose, even though a simpler version would have been what of the second case. What's an easier way to say the 2nd case. The hood, our rallies of those who disbelief, that is not what said, well I didn't say that he made it unusually long. Now the benefit of that is remarkable. Nothing can be compared with Allah. So the word doesn't even deserve to be mentioned in the same place in the sentence where Allah had already been mentioned. So since the law primary was mentioned in the beginning, there is no other primary that will be like Allah, so even another primary will be mentioned at the end switched over. This is actually two things, it is on the one hand and a a majesty of a loss of and on the other hand, a denigration of you with me so far. But still, let's make another point, how did I define Willie, I forgot a friend who wants to protect you For believers who is believers have Allah as what Willie uh Disbelievers have to who as well as yes, okay,

unless has uh Believers have a lot of 20 and as mola, we say in the no Lana at the end of mackerel, we say Anton arenas. Lana, the difference between Willie and mola is simple. Willy is someone who has the intent to protect you, mola is someone actually engaged in the act of protecting you. Someone who's actually doing the act of protecting you is not just your willy. He is also your I know that now we have a worldly but disbelievers also have a willy but we don't just have a word And we also have a what the question then comes if we have a willy and um Ola, do the disbelievers also have a willy and a hold on says Mohamed

wow, anil Katharina llama la la home. That is because Allah is the mola of those who believe and the Katherine have no Moola for themselves. The caffeine can have a walleye but they are not given a mola. The believers are given away early and they are given a nola So hallelujah in other words, in the word Willie we know that Allah is willing to protect us in the word mola. We know that Allah is actually protecting us. In the case of the disbelievers, they've got to who, who expressed willingness to protect them but they actually in reality have no one protecting them La la la la home, incredible stuff. You know when Willie, Willie and mullah got translated the same exact way he just missed the whole thing. Just skip the boat altogether. You got nothing out of it. You know. Okay, now we can move along. You guys are still doing okay or I'm going to pretend you are okay. Let's talk a little bit about manners in the all that teaches us manners, but not manners like sit when you eat and speak softly and all of that. You okay abdullah everything okay? You're good. Okay, Goodbye. Okay.

All right so check this out. What is the difference between

when I say I intended? Who's doing the act of intending? I am when I say it was intended. Who's doing the act of intending? Hm february. I don't speak Scooby doo. Right. Hello. You're right Scooby. The answer is I don't know when you say it was intended. There's no way for you to know who's doing the act of intending. When you say it was written we don't know the writer. When you say they were helped we don't know the helper. When you say she was killed we don't know that killer you understand. Now look at the remarkable language.

Was evil intended for the people of the world or did their master intend good for them? Wow. There's an intention of evil and there's an intention of good when evil is mentioned. What do you find was evil intended? Was anybody's intention mentioned? No the jinn are speaking here and the jin don't even say by the way we think maybe a lot intended evil maybe intended good. They say when they speak of evil they say was evil intended for the people of the earth. But when it came to good they say we should attribute good to a lot. So they say what or did their master intend good for them? You see that they didn't stick to the same kind of language? The same kind of language. Was it would have been was evil intended or was good intended or did he intend evil or good if you say was evil intended or was good intended then you gave no credit to anybody if you say was did he intend good or evil than you are saying he has the possibility of intending evil. But they don't want to speak about a lot like that. They have that much other from the very beginning. So they actually say was evil intended for those on the earth. You know the you know the thing about Jin, have you heard me talk about Jin before? You know you have a great time margin. I'm not gonna tell you again story but I'll tell you a engine story. Amazing story. One of my favorite stories to tell you for five minutes. You can handle it. The jin used to travel into the sky, They used to steal some information from angels once in a while sometimes get a little bit piece you know and then cause fitna in the world with that little bit of information and every time they tried to steal something they would get followed by a meteor shower or whatever. Right? So they were used to going up into the sky and they had some this summer they had some places in the sky where they could sit and they could listen, they could listen and you know there were spots, they hung out in their parking lots in the universe, you know, or car parks, sorry, car parks in the universe where they go and they just hang out and maybe, you know, smoke a little and just talk okay, get it smoke. But anyway, um, but so the gin, then, what happened was when the Koran was coming down, they described this in so little gin window, Corrine was coming down, the entire sky was locked down. They used to have some places where they went and hung out. There were, hey, what you guys want to go to the other side of the moon and just chill. So they're about to go and they go and security, an entire army of angels is covering the entire sky. Unauthorized access turn around or you will be shot down. So all the chins are stuck not in the sky, but in the world, they're stuck in the world. So there was an excess population of genes in the world because the access to the sky was shut down and they have no idea why was the sky on what's going on? Why can't we go on the roads, everything's locked up. So they're hanging out on the, on the earth now they've got nowhere else to go. So a group of them is walking by and they just heard some Koran being recited by the salam and they say, oh wait a second, that's why the sky is locked down because when the revelation comes from Allah Allah since Gabriel, but he is I mean, Gabriel has a massive following. So what Allah, doesn't he locks up the entire sky. Then Gabriel comes down with the Koran and around him as a battalion, a legion of angels and nobody else has access to the entire sky, An entire army of angels comes down so that Gabriel can deliver the and when they heard just a few words of it, they said, I know what that is. That is why the sky was shut down. Oh, that's awesome. They immediately recognized it. This is a unique Khurana. This is a unique crime. You know, they could tell, they could just tell you know, the koresh would make the allegation that maybe he is possessed by maybe this Koran comes from and even the Gin are saying, no, that ain't us because we get killed. We can't even get close, you know? So I had a lot. Now let's go a little further.

Can you tell me the difference? Look, look at the other been language. Actually, no, the other one. Language thing is easy enough. Let me give you this one. What's the difference between Allah gave an example and an example was given.

Is there a difference? Yeah, for a muslim, when he hears the Lord gave an example, does he pay extra attention? Sure, because it's a lot for a when he hears a lot given example, does he pay more attention or less attention. Listen, I've heard enough about this online business. I don't wanna hear anymore. No, thank you. I'm done in psychology and communication psychology. This is called central and peripheral route persuasion. I'll tell you what that means. In simple terms, in simple terms, it means that when you are trying to convince someone, the real thing that you should be using is your arguments, your proof, your evidence, your reasoning, your content. That should be the real reason why someone should be convinced. But the world doesn't work like that. People don't just look at, don't just look at what is being said. They also look at how it's being said. They also look at who is saying it, they also look at how it's being presented, how long it's been presented. And there are lots of things to look at. Those are all peripheral, secondary things. But they become important in communication. I want to give you an example of that. You have a hot bar in the United States. We don't have a lot of imams. A lot of mushrooms don't have imams. So we have to, we're desperate. So people like me have to get football. Just somebody, anybody goes and give a football. So what happens is is one must shade marshall, lots of elders in the mustard and as a matter of time and they're waiting for the to get up on the member. They don't even know who the hell is this week and this young man, he's got one of those pencil beard, you know the pencil beard is

the lives okay, drawn by a pencil, okay. He's got one of those pencil beers and you know, he's got a baseball hat on sideways, got a chain, it's a big baggy T shirt, he's walking through the crowd, excuse me, excuse me making his way to the front. People are confused, you're thinking that's the kind of guy that praise in the back is going to go in the front row, he keeps going and keeps going and keeps going. He makes it all the way to the men but he climbs up on the member, two people have a heart attack mm hmm he gets up all the way and he gets to the mic

and he sits down, there's massive confusion. Even the guy who's about to give the other one is like should we kill him? Or there are some people thinking can I get to the other mustard in time, My salat even going to count, you know, do I have to sacrifice a goat to make up for this Jawara or there's massive confusion but this guy somehow got away with it. He gives and he gives an amazing couple. Oof, it was amazing. There are people outside who, you know, usually people who come late to the mustard, they pray by the shoes because they have no space. So the people who pray by the shoes, they don't see him. They only what, They only hear him. The people inside are questioning whether or not they should kill him. The people outside are like Mashallah who was the share. I wonder if I can give him a hug. I wonder if I can take a picture with him. I wonder if he can pat my child on the head and for my child. You know, like there's why is that? Why is there two different reactions? Because we don't judge what is being said? We also judge who's saying it. It makes a difference, doesn't it? It's psychologically it's just true. It happens. We can't help ourselves. For some people. They will, they will see someone old about to speak and they'll stop listening as one of those before he even says anything, you might say the most wonderful thing. Just didn't give him a chance for some people. They'll, they'll, they'll see someone young get up and speak and say garbage. These people, why do they get a real item under the Junior high waisted, you know, people judge before the guy even opens his mouth. That's true. So now in the, it's remarkable that in the Koran in Med any Corrine Allah says durable Allahu Allah gave an example why? Because who's listening believers are listening and when believers are listening in Medina Koran, they hear the word Allah and they pay less attention or more attention. They pay more attention. But in the hodge towards the end. Especially the koresh are tired of listening to this message of islam. They don't want to hear anything. So they're not told a lie is giving an example because the moment they heard the word a lot they would stop paying attention. So they are told. Yeah, johanna's first time people an example is about to be given. Just listen. Just listen to it. Just listen carefully. Forget about who's saying it. Just listen to the message itself. Just listen to the message itself. That's really remarkable because it's actually a recognition of the fact that in some cases when you let people know where the source of the messages, they'll stop listening. You have to emphasize the message itself over the speaker. It needs to happen. This is not to say that the Koran doesn't pay attention to style. The Koran is actually makes a pretty big deal out of style. The Koran itself is evidence that style is important. The and their beauty and their flow and their rhythm is also evidence that style is important. Did you eat itself? Is evidence that style is important, right? But there are some cases where people become so stubborn, they don't want to hear anything and then you have to use the other kind of persuasion and say listen. Just listen to the idea itself. Forget about where it's coming from. Just listen to an example or an example is about to be struck. Just listen to it carefully. Okay I'll give you one more before your break. Mm one more or Yeah one More. Okay, past tense versus present tense. I ate a burger. I eat a burger. I know that you know the difference between past tense and present tense but I want you to think about it even further. There is an additional difference, not just that one is in the past and one is in the present. There's another difference. The other difference is the one in the past. I ate a burger. How many times? one time when you say I eat a burger, is it possible you eat it more than once? It is isn't it? So the present tense can indicate something that happens repeatedly while the past tense is something that may have happened how many times once? Okay. Now bearing that in mind you'll notice a remarkable use of tenses in the Koran. Very interesting. The study of tents in the Koran. There are two dreams mentioned in the Koran from profits. Can somebody tell me what the two dreams from profits are? The dreams of A and B. Who's in? Who's in? Who's B. Ibrahim Ali said I'm good. Who else? Good. Ibrahim Salam. And interestingly enough when Ibrahim Ali sam saw a dream by the way, what was the dream slaughtering his son? He says in the ara film. Anomie. I see in my dreams I see in the dream. What tense is he using when he speaks Presidents Yusuf ali Salam saw a dream by the way, what was the dream? The stars, the sun, the moon. You recall that? He says I saw 11 stars. The sun of the moon. To dreams are mentioned one prophet says I see a dream the other says I I saw a dream now the difference. What did I tell you about? I eat a burger and I ate a burger. Which one is repeating itself? The present tense Ibrahim ali Salam says, I see in my dream that I am killing you, I'm slaughtering you because he didn't see the dream once. He saw it over and over and over again, it doesn't the Koran doesn't have to go and waste details. There's no wasted time in the Koran wasted words in the Koran. The president tells itself is enough to let you know that he saw the dream multiple times. Yusuf Salam saw the dream how many times One time says in the I saw 11 stars, the sun and the moon. He saw it once it was enough to bother him and he went and talked to his dad about it. Do you understand even a cooler example of past tense and present tense is murder, murder. Whoever killed by mistake, whoever kills on purpose,

whoever killed by mistake, whoever kills on purpose immediately one after the other, the switch of tents and by the way, if you use past and present, like whoever ate lots of fruit might get sick. Whoever eats lots of fruit might get sick or something terrible example, but whatever. Okay, now the thing is when somebody imagine you, you know, I'll give the same old example if if you go to, if you have an apartment, you live in an apartment on the 15th floor and you throw a barbecue and you know everybody is enjoying the food and you take, hey, so how's it going? How's the new job? Huh?

That was my what mistake? How many times you gonna make that mistake? Hopefully like in other words, you killed someone but you killed someone by what? My mistake and that should happen only once. Which is why when killing by mistake is mentioned. The past tense is used because it illustrates something that happens once in the same discussion. A lot talks about murder that is perpetrated on purpose, homicide, right? Intent for murder. And so when that is discussed, the lessons, whoever kills a believer on purpose kills present tense. Why? Because if you kill on purpose, there is danger that you will kill on purpose again and there's also the possibility that you've probably killed before, which means there's a danger of continuity that's captured in the present tense. The Koran will use past tense and present tense to teach phenomenal lessons, Even lessons about time and how we think about time, the way we you and I think about time and the way Allah sees time are two different things. You know the expression every person will be paid. Every person was paid.

Every person will be paid. Every person was paid. Both of these are used for judgment day in the Koran. Strange allies describing judgment day, something that will happen in the future. I would expect every time he talks about it he will say everyone will be paid. He also uses what everyone was paid. How can you talk about the future and use what tense, past tense you will notice remarkably in the Koran every time the Iata about human beings. Allah will say everyone will be paid every time the Iata about Allah Allah will say everyone was paid. Why? Because Layla's view of time is not like you are in my view of time. The human view of time is we can either we look at the past behind us, we look at the present right now and we are waiting for the future in the future. For Allah who sees all and knows all the past and the present and the future. His view of them is all kinds of are all done deal. He can talk about all of it as though it's in the past and why specifically talk about it from a lost perspective. Why talk about the time in the past tense? Why? Because if there's one thing for certain knowledge for all the things that are happening right now, the certain knowledge is always of the past? Less knowledge is certain. It's certain. So you can talk about future events in the past tense. He does that. Okay, There's a difference. Also I'm wearing the next section now. These grammatical nuances and in childlike so are powerful implications of word declination and things like that. I'll share a couple of examples of this with you. Uh my hope was that we can at least finish section Section six today. That's probably not going to happen. So I'll just at least give you one example of section six tomorrow. Okay, check this out. This is gonna be so cool. Let me just zoom in on what I have written down here. There are different ways of saying no in any language, there are different ways of saying no, of course in Arabic too. So here's what I mean when I used to be a teacher, I used to be a nice guy. I remember that. It didn't work out so well I walk into a class and my students are making a lot of noise and I say, hey everyone, no talking no more talking. I don't want to hear one word from you today, absolute silence. I'm very upset today. Oh, when you talk like that, you're supposed to think I'm thinking in my head. Finally, I got there. Ah some authorities. Finally, I get some respect around here but I was destroyed in the first minute of class as soon as I finished my comment about no talking everybody be quiet. The kid right in front of me. Where is his hand. Can I get some water

apparently to him when I say no talking, it means for everybody else, Not for him. And as a matter of fact, the word no is used in degrees of intensity. Like in other words you could sometimes say no, but you don't really mean no. Like completely no. Like if you're a Pakistani or something, you go to someone's house, they say t what do you say? No, none. Which means hurry up stupid, you know, and he, that's what that means.

Or Children. You're running around after Children. You have to catch me. I'm catching her, I'm catching her. I'm gonna get you know, okay, I won't get you. No, no, get me get me. Why the no. Then I'm tickling the baby like no, stop it. No, no, no. Then I stop it. Will you stop? What? You know? So sometimes no, doesn't mean no, sometimes no, it's not. Absolutely no. Hey, so you know the wife is upset and the husband says, hey, hey, hey, hey, you want to go get some food? No, no, come on. You know, you want to know you look like you could use some pizza. No. Oh,

so sometimes no is not total no, you get it. But sometimes no is absolutely no, absolutely no. You guys know about this when your wife just says don't talk to me today, just back off, walk away and just like I don't know eat some drink some sugar cane or something, live your life. Okay, now here's the thing in the Quran, the word La means what? No, but sometimes if you look at the screen it says LA your own the word after La has at the end right. And then if you look at the next line, it says same word La, but the word after has

as opposed to ending with what it's ending with ah this is a grammatical lesson but I want to tell you that in english translation of the Koran actually both of those are translated the same way unfortunately, unfortunately, so is translated there is no fear. La Arriba is translated. There is no doubt. There is no fear Lord, there is no doubt but there's a difference and the difference is that when you say La, when you end with one then actually you are saying for the most part no, but there's some exception possible. Once again, I'll say that again, if you end with what then for the most part it's no but some exception is possible when you end with ah like then guess what's being said, there's absolutely no room for exception whatsoever unless explicitly stated, no way judgment day. Allah says for the most part there's no fear on the believers will believers be still somewhat afraid on judgment day. Yeah, they are saved from most fear but some fear is still there he says la he for the most part there are no sales on judgment day. For the most part, are there some sales on judgment day? Absolutely. A lot purchased from believers their money and lives in exchange for Jenna

Allah himself said this. Most people won't be able to make a sale. Some people's sale will be accepted on judgment day but it says la on no sales but actually means no sales for the most part. He says on judgment day there will be no hula la hula. There will be no friendship on judgment day. That is not exactly accurate. It actually means for the most part there will be no friendship on judgment day because on judgment day will there be people who are under Allah shade who are befriended by Allah Absolutely. So for the most part there is no friendship on judgment day then the I. S. S. There is no intercession on judgment day. Nobody will come and speak on your behalf on judgment day. Nobody wants will say to Allah Allah take it easy on the soma. Let them go into agenda. Wait, wait, is that true? Nobody, nobody will speak on our behalf, Nobody will plead our case. Nobody will say who is it And the fact that there is room for the profit to make sure is inside that little

for the most part there's no Shafal, can you imagine if that splash of arata? Yes, that's scary. Lori buffet. He tabu larry, but is it larry bird larry Boone. Now, what's the difference ribbon means? What? Absolutely no room for any doubt whatsoever. That would be a problem. If you said well, for the most part, that would be a problem. There's absolutely no way to force anyone into this Dean in under any circumstance whatsoever. Nobody can be forced into the religion. This is the korans declaration of freedom of religion. Under no circumstances. Absolutely not. For the most part, you can't force someone, but sometimes you can slap someone to make a muslim, nope la la Jolla in la la, that should be super obvious to you. There's absolutely no one worthy of worship, love, obedience devotion except a lot Under any circumstance. Similarly, for hypocrites, Allah says there's absolutely no portion for them whatsoever in the afterlife. None whatsoever in other words. These I wanted to highlight these because one of my goals in this seminar is to show you what is missing in translation. You're reading translation and those two are going to be translated exactly the same way. They're going to be translated exactly the same way. And this is not all that difficult to learn. Eventually. If you put the time in, it's less than 200 hours. It really is maybe 120 hours even you can get pretty proficient. I want to give you one last example in as our break approaches. This is actually pretty amazing. Make this a beautiful or a peaceful city. Make this city peaceful.

These are the prayers of Ibrahim one time he says make this a beautiful city or a peaceful city rather. And then some when he says make this city peaceful, which sounds almost the same, Doesn't it sounds almost the same. But you know, language, it's all about paying attention. It's all about looking carefully when he says make this a peaceful city. You know what he's saying? He's saying, he's looking at a desert, he's looking at this and he's telling to take this this nothing, this barren land and turn it into a city. Not only a city turned this into a peaceful city. In other words when he says make this a peaceful city.

This is when he first came to market and there was nothing there. And he used his imagination and he looked at this nothing and said, yeah, I think that they can be a city here. This this this is pretty pretty good. We should have a city here and turned this into a peaceful city. Years later he came back when he came back, was there a city there already there was a city there when the city was already there. He doesn't say make this a peaceful city. Now it's a city already. So he calls it a city, he says Lord master make this city peaceful. Make the city peaceful. In other words, the language here is telling you the chronology of the prayers. One prayer is way in the back way early when it wasn't really formulated as a city yet. And the other one when it was fully formed as a city. Ibrahim is when it was fully formed as a city. What do you believe? Surprise of love? Ibrahim Ali speaking of Ibrahim Ali Salam. Since I have a few minutes, I'll just tell you one or two things about him that are super awesome. Ibrahim Ali Salam makes these doors ah in in Alberta And he asks for two things for the city dominant dominant and what? So he asked for peace and he asked for fruits. You can call fruits prosperity. You can also look at this as law and order on the one hand, plus strong economy on the other hand, I'm using CNN language now to have a stable society today. What do you need any law and order? And you also need a strong economy. If you don't have law and order and you have good business is the problem is those businesses can get robbed. People can get stolen from their money isn't safe. Their house isn't safe. Their business isn't safe if you have law and order. But you don't have a strong economy, what happens? There are no jobs? There's no businesses, People don't have enough to eat the society falls apart. Crime increases revolution increases resistance against the government increases problems happen to have a society function in a healthy way. What do you need? You need peace. You need law and order. And what else do you need? You need prosperity. So he said, yeah, a lot. When it comes to Mecca make this a city that has peace and also make this a city that has all kinds of fruit. It is good economically. It's doing well. The genius of this man. Inside just a couple of words, it's just the entire framework for what a society needs to function in a proper ways of how to love today in the world. You have societies that are falling apart either because there's a problem with law and order or there's a problem because of the economy and sometimes both and they're both related. They're both inseparable when you have political corruption. It usually creates economic problems. When you have economic corruption, it usually leads to political corruption. There's two things are hand in hand and so in the in the of the profits that you read in the Koran, you'll find tremendous lessons, tremendous lessons for how society should function even today. Now, I have six minutes left with you guys. And in these six minutes let's see if we can knock out at least one example. Oh, what should I do? What should I do? Okay, I'll give you one. I'll give you one. Oh man, I think I can do this in six minutes. You guys have the attention span to last this. Okay, this is a heavy one. So listen carefully.

I will, I will speak quickly now and I will not give you a chance to answer rhetorical questions because I have six minutes so keep it, pay attention and stay, hang along, hang on for the ride 70 or more times uses the words rahim forgiving lovingly, lovingly and loving and caring. Forgiving, loving and caring in other words, forgiving comes first, loving and caring comes second every time except one time in the Koran. And this is it. This guy says he knows what goes into the earth and what comes out of it, he knows what comes down from the sky and what goes up into the sky and he is loving caring rahim and he is extremely forgiving. In other words, he reversed the sequence of law for raheem and made it a raheem which is curious why would he do that? This one place in the current, let's explore the benefits of this one idea. The first thing I'd like you to know is that this idea is actually about the knowledge of Allah because it began with he knows what goes into the earth, he knows what comes out of the earth, he knows what comes down from the sky, he knows what goes up into the sky right? So it's about Allah's knowledge beautifully in the Koran over and over again. Allah makes an association between knowledge and his love and care. Knowledge and his love. Knowledge and Rama and Rama are associated in the Koran. How do we know that Rahman? What's next? Alabama? His Rama has mentioned that his has mentioned. Him giving elements mentioned immediately

encompassed everything in Rama and you encompassed everything in loving care and in knowledge. Loving care and knowledge of then go a little further. By the way, somebody remind me tomorrow, I have to tell you one thing about a democracy. Just one thing, not the thing I told you last time. Another thing, a big one, but tomorrow inshallah I'll forget. So you have to tell me. Okay, anyway, so Allah says

roger martin. Did you hear mercy? Love Care?

There's association between Rama and between loving care and knowledge. This idea began with what knowledge. So what took precedent? Loving here Rahim came first. That's one explanation. Let's go a little further. He knows what goes into the earth like the seed, right? What goes into the earth is the seed, He knows what comes out of the earth, like the what the plant, the tree, the grass, okay. He knows what comes down from the sky, what comes down rain, He knows what goes up into the sky, like the vapor, the hot air that goes up into the sky. Right? Okay, let's go to take a step back again. We also go into the earth. I will go into the earth. You will go into the earth and one day we will also come out of the earth? Yes, Allah doesn't just send rain from the sky. He also sends this from the sky. He also sends revelation from the sky. He also sends angels of protection from the sky. He sends all kinds of things from the sky and he also you know what else rises to the sky. You and I are rises to the sky when we pass will rise to the sky won't it? Our deeds are taken to the sky every day. The delivery happens every day of our records, you know, So there's a physical up and down and there's a spiritual up and down right now let's go back again. So you can see what how this works when we go into the ground. He knows what goes into the ground. When we go into the ground, it is the time of our death. Yes. When we come out of the ground it is the time of our resurrection, judge the day of resurrection. When we go into the ground we are looking for Allah's love and care when we come out of the ground we will be looking for a less forgiveness. So he mentioned rahim and then he mentioned muffled And you know what at the time of and then the next one what comes down from the sky. What did I say comes down from the sky? Rain comes what else comes revelation comes what else comes huh? But it comes all of these are acts of a less love and care, aren't they? So what comes down from the sky is rahman? It comes what comes from the skies, rahman? What goes up into the sky? What did I say? It goes up into the sky on a daily basis. Our deeds, what do our deeds need forgiveness? So like I mentioned, what needs love and care? Then he mentioned what needs forgiveness? Then he mentions what needs love and care that he mentioned what needs forgiveness And at the end he mentioned the loving and caring, the forgiving.

There's one last thing perfection of Koran Justin desire. This is the perfection of the Koran. What goes into the earth. What did I say? What did I say? Goes into the earth, seeds and people. In other words, what goes into the earth as human and nonhuman? Isn't that true? Human and non human? What what comes from the sky is for humans and also for non humans. What goes up into the sky is also human and nonhuman. Yes. So this is not restricted to human activity. It is about all things. There are two names of a light at the end, which two names of a light at the end of and now I want you to think about this carefully. Which of these two names are specifically for human beings. Is Al rahim specifically for human beings or specifically for human beings unlawful. Why is that specific for human beings because trees don't ask for forgiveness. They haven't done anything wrong. We do things wrong to the trees. They didn't do anything wrong. Katz said, don't ask us to far. No dogs don't ask for us. Their father, we asked for a step part. Isn't that true? Because the IA is universal, The Universal Name of the Law Comes 1st. If the idea was not universal, if the idea was about us, then what would come first? The name that is specific to us. It has more to do with us than anybody else. And that is the name of it was put in the secondary position because the idea itself is actually not only about us, you will now learn that all over the Koran when a lesson you check it yourself. 70 plus cases every single time. Allah mentions rahim the Ia is about human beings. The idea is about human beings. This idea is the only one that is human beings and beyond. So he mentioned it to him first. So the Universal goes with the Universal, the special goes the specific goals with this specific is the perfection of the I can't think of any speech of Allah, any speech of anyone other than Allah can do this. Who can pull this off. There are other issues that I wanted to talk to you about that. We didn't get time to discuss today, but hopefully inshallah, we'll get a chance to discuss them tomorrow. I'll give you a quick preview. So I'll let you guys go the tomorrow. I'll be talking about the stories in the Koran. Why are the stories in the order that they are will have a long healthy discussion about why Allah uses the word we in the Koran for himself. A lot of people are curious about that. We're going to have a conversation about, for example, why does the less swear by different kinds of things in the Koran? We're gonna talk about how people claim that there are mistakes in the Koran, grammatical mistakes in the Koran. I'll at least give you one or two examples of that. We're gonna talk about the order of the Sierras and the Koran because they're clearly not in chronological order. So what order is it? What's the shura anyway, we'll talk about that tomorrow and our concluding session, which is our most fun session we are actually going to. Um I'll keep it a surprise.

I'll give you a surprise. Yes. Yeah.
