Okay.

Mhm.

I want to show you something on the other screen. I'll write it in English. Even it's easier. Okay. Can you read the first word for me? No, no. Read the first word for me. This is how loud you can read my child. Love is is this how you act at a party when you go somewhere? How are you? How was your mom about this?

Some of my students do that when they don't know the answer to a question in a class. So is that mobile as you have? Uh huh. Mhm. What you say? Hi, tourism. And the best one is they say the full sentence. But right at the part of the sentence where there's the answer, the volume goes down. The answer is actually has risen. Uh, could you turn that up again? Could you? You know, so read the first word. Very good. Some of you, Marshal, come from very wealthy families, and you are raised as aristocrats and you're not like the rest of us peasants. So you don't like to speak out loud in front of the rest of us local, middle class, lower class people. So you just sit there like no, but the rest of you, I would urge I would urge the aristocrats among you also to join today the rest of the farming class and stay with us. Some bola Ah, that's better. Some bullet Sana bin. Okay, this is a comparison between three words. Symbol. A symbol, it and Sanibel. Some Bullough is an ear of grain. What that means is, sometimes you have a crop like corn. You know, corn grows and it has these peels and you peel them and there's the grain inside, right, that ear itself that you peel that's called a shambhala. That's the singular version. Some bullet is the plural, so ears, ears of corn are some bullet, and then Sanibel is also another plural. This is unique in Arabic because in Arabic you can have multiple plural for one word. So, for example, there's kaffir means disbeliever. The plural is cafe run like Julia ul Cafe run or you can also say so far you can also see how far you have multiple plural. Sometimes you have, for example, Nebbi Yoon. That's the plural of Maybe you also have the plural MBIA that's also a plural of Nebbi. In other words, in Arabic, it is possible to have multiple plural for one word. It's possible, actually, So far you have caffeine. Singular. Catherine is plural, so far is plural, and capybara is also plural. You like a home that's also plural, so they're multiple plural as possible. The question, then, is what is the difference between one plural and another plural in English When I make something plural, I just put an S at the end and I'm done Finnish, that's a plural. But the Arabs have multiple plural. What's the point of them? Well, actually, there is a point to them. The pleural at somebody lot is actually considered a week plural, and Sanibel is considered a strong plural or a super plural or plural on steroids or a really muscular plural, or you see where I'm going with this. Cymbalta is weak. Sanibel is strong now in English. When you read the English translation of the Koran, if you read some bullet, it would just say ears of grain. If you read the English translation of Sanibel, it would still say ears of green. It would not tell you that one is weak and the other is strong now. The thing about weak and strong also is that when you have less than 10, if it's just single digits, then it's weak. It's not that many. You can count them between your hands so they use the week plural for that. When it's mysteriously more, it's uncountable. Almost. Then you use the more powerful plural, you understand. So for something that's meager in number, we can number. Then you use the week plural. When it's stronger number, you use the strong plural. Now here's the mystery. The Koran uses these ears of grain only twice, only twice. But the amazing thing is that both times it's talking about the # seven. So it's not like it's a different quantity. It's both the number seven. So the idea in Bakara says, you know, uh, we have beaten and battered Sabah Sanibel of equally some bulletin Miyata haba Every year of grain like when you spend in the path of Allah. The example of what you spend is like a seed, and every seed gives birth to seven years of grain, and every year when you peel, it has 100 grains inside it. So you're one donation. God multiplied by how much? 700. Well, look who you are. A fool. Inuyasha and above and above and beyond That multiplies in his own way. However, for whoever he wants meaning this is multiplication, you understand? Then there's a multiplication you can't understand. And he does that too. Right? But here he used the word here He used the word Sana bin which is a week plural or a strong plural. And how many years of grain are we talking about? Seven. And the next one was samba Samba, Latin Hadron. Seven years of seven green ears of grain. Anyone know where that's used? seven fat cows, seven skinny cows, seven years of grain, Anything ring a bell. The story of Yusuf Ali Salam. The dream of the king. You remember So now the dream of the king. He sees seven ears of grain. But when his seven years of grain are being talked about, what word is used? Some, but not the weaker plural. Now I told you you would. Normally you would use the strong plural for more and weak plural for less. It is so beautiful that in the Koran Allah used the week plural when he talked about the story of Yusuf, because the dream, when it was interpreted meant that there is not going to be enough food. So you have to really save the food and ration it because you're gonna have seven years when there's not gonna be any crop and the stored crop is going to save you so you don't have enough to just eat however you want, you have to ration. You have to take it easy, so it's less not enough quantity a week quantity. So the week plural is used, on the other hand, in certain Bakara allies, saying you spend very little for him and he will multiply it many, many, many, many, many times over. This is going to be a way of empowering your work with huge rewards. This is a context not of using the week plural but the strong plural. So he uses Sanibel. They're both seven years, but one is mysteriously far more powerful than the other panel left, you know. So let's choose is the right word at the right place. This was This is a study of how you know we say in a hotel bar or in a talk, we give the claim that the Koran uses every word perfectly. Every word is exactly where it's supposed to be. We say that, but we don't taste it like we don't experience it. And I want these examples. I want to give you some taste of it like, Look, this word. If you move it for me, it wouldn't make sense anymore. It's so much more perfect to use it in this way. So even though this next example is actually very profound, it's about Ibrahim al Salam. So let me put some words on the screen for you so you can compare this lesson and understand it. I think many of you know the word Norma. What does it mean? Blessing. Very good. So normal means one blessing near, um means many, many, many, many, many, many, many blessings unknown is another plural means a few blessings. Which one is the strong plural? Which one is the week? Plural. Nam is the strong girl. So I'm gonna put some some labels here for the two of you that are taking notes.

So this is singular. This one is super plural. This one is week plural, strong core will be closed. Okay.

Again in the Koran, Allah uses the strong plural of blessing one time And the week plural for blessing at one time. So when the question arises, when does he use the strong one? When does he use the week one? By the way, this discussion. Would it ever even occur to you if you were only reading the Koran in translation? This wouldn't Actually, you wouldn't even have this question. It wouldn't even cross your eye. You just pass over it. Okay, so let's look at it. By the way, you guys understand this now? Norma is a singular near, um is the plural the strong one and unknown is the week plural? Okay. Now, in the Ibrahima Cano Martin Ibrahim Ali Salam cinema is talking about Ibrahim Ali Saddam. And he says, Shaq, you're on Lian Army. He describing Ibrahim Ali Saddam. He was grateful for Allah's blessings. Unknown. Is that a week? Plural or a strong plural? You're right. That's a week. We're all Ibrahim Ali. Salam was grateful for a few blessings. What? That doesn't sound right. What time on Ibrahim Ali Salam? I was expecting a lot to say. He was grateful for what many blessings. But Allah says he was grateful for a few blessings left with my head scratching like, Why is the week plural being used in? Let's look at the other one, Martina. He unleashed. He unloaded. He released onto you his blessings, the ones you can see and the ones you can't see which plural is used near. Um, is that weak or strong? Not strong. So one time only use this week. The other time usually use this strong. So let's understand this. To understand this properly, you have to understand. Another eye of Dr Angela says We're introducing a rheumatology Lotto Souda. If you were to try to count the favor of Allah, the blessing, singular, the blessing of Allah, you wouldn't be able to do it. The I s says you can't even count to one. Yeah, Hume. And by the way, if all human beings joined together to count for one blessing of Allah, unless, as you can't fully account for it, not all the blessings of Allah, the idea is remarkable. Near Maatta, Martin is singular. Pair plural. What is it? Singular. The ISS not near Ramallah, Ramallah and some say it is engines. That's fine. But you know, in the sense of the villa, Actually, something else is being said like, for example, my ability to see how many ways has my ability to see benefited me in my life. How many ways has it benefited me today can account no. How many ways has done my heartbeat benefited me. How many ways is the air I breathe? Benefited me. Can I count? I can't even fully account for one one gift of a lot. And that's not just me, a less challenging, all of humanity to get together. And even then, they can't even account for one of them. So when Ibrahim and his Saddam is able to accomplish a few, it's a pretty big deal. That's why it says a few. That's huge. It's comparative. The other problem is as follows. Ibrahim Ali Salam is one of the most grateful human beings that ever lived right. It's one of the most grateful human beings that ever lived as long as he lives, if he spends every second of his life thinking a lot for a blessing, if he spent every second of his life thinking a lot how many favors of a lot? Did he thank him for many or a few? It still amounts to only a few because of human beings spent their entire existence existence thanking a love for the gifts he has given them. The amount that they would be able to thank him would still actually still mean what very few compared to the actual gifts. We can't compete. We will never thank him enough. We're never going to be able to thank him enough. So life is giving us some perspective. When he says that he was only able to give me how many a few blessings thank me only for a few of them because that's all a human being can do. You can thank me for a lot of blessings. That's not you're not capable of it. You're just not capable. But now look at the other aisle He unloaded onto you. He released onto you. He unleashed onto you many, many, many blessings, the ones you see and the ones you don't see. You understand the comparison now. When the law gave us blessings, did he give us a few or many? He gave us many. When we thank him. We're not humanly able to thank him for more than just a few. That's the comparison here between the powerful world and the weaker plural. And this entire lesson of the Koran would never happen if we don't pay attention to what I was saying in the Arabic. The And by the way, in modern Arabic, you wouldn't even just an informal Arabic. It's not even a conversation. You just pass along. It doesn't happen. Okay, already. You guys doing okay? By the way, attention Span was okay. Good. Oh, should I do this one? Yes, I should. It's an agenda. We should do this one. I really want to go. Not yet, though.

Some people come up to me and say Brother and I love you, John. And I was like, Hold on a second eventually. Yeah. Obesity page do already sending me, like, take it easy. Uh huh. Anyway, sorry. Oh, savvy. Oh, those of you can read the Arabic. What's the next? Underneath that line instead of side? How does the next one begin? Sabes que one begins with sorry or the other begins with Save your cool. Pretty awesome Saudi omens rush Like if you go to hide your camera, the cop tells you to you hug. I don't know what the flower blooming is for, but they're constantly flowers, blooming hugs, hugs, hugs. I was so excited when I went to college. I was like, Finally I will get to practice some Arabic. I didn't Every time it's time to speak in Airborne, Okay? Uh huh. My best experience was when I went to this Yemeni guy and I was like, a little mash it And he you know, the Urdu word for straight forward, straight ahead and sit down. He goes into the cedar. I was like, Where are you from? Going from Yemen. Look, why are you speaking or do man, you got the young and the Pakistanis are going to the Yemeni guy who's speaking will do in Medina. That's crazy. It's like I thought I went to learn Arabic. Nope, even the guy you guys probably don't even understand. This guy says, selling like fruits and bananas and he's like punching the hell well, by just five in or do like you can't even like humps because nobody's gonna understand him. My favorite experience was, though, when I was in one of those markets in Makkah there was a Nigerian woman, and there was there was a Yemeni cash. The guy at the store and the guy is talking to her in or do. And she's speaking to her in her local language and they understand each other and they're negotiating, and it works out. I mean, this is international trade at its best. You know, the one thing I didn't find was Arabic. That's the one thing I didn't find anyway. Sorry. Oh, And what saying Sorry means to rush Sabako means to race Once again. Sorry. zero means to rush and sabako means to race. When do you run faster? When you're rushing or when you're racing. Okay, good. So the second one is somehow more intense than the first one. Because in the second one, you're not just rushing. You are racing. Okay? You're rushing to forgiveness. Sorry ol, um are for Latin Arabic. Um, and the second one also Saudi sabic Latin Arabic. Um, you want to rush towards the forgiveness from your master and you want to race to the forgiveness of your master. But the real comparison I want to give you is the agenda and you should race you. You should rush towards agenda and you should race towards agenda. Elias has rushed agenda and, he says, raised agenda. Then he says How big agenda, he says, are due to Osama. What are its its size? Its volume is disguise in the earth. Jenna is the size of the skies and the earth. In the next example he says, are the haka out this sama Uh, well, it's size is something like the size of whatever lies above and the earth. In other words, the second one is actually bigger. The second gender that's being described is actually bigger. You see some Mowat and sama. There's a difference. Some of what actually means seven skies sama doesn't mean one, sky sama actually means whatever is above. Now you think about this logically when you say seven skies You're talking about seven floors when you say everything above. Is that more? Yeah. Technically, Sama is more than some a lot. The word sama is actually bigger than the word Spamalot. And this is unless you study Arabic linguistics you wouldn't know you would think sama is singular and sama, what is plural so the plural should be more than the singular. It's the other way around. Sama is actually more salmon watches less unless you qualify summer. If you just say summer, that actually means everything above everything above. So what I'm trying to say is the second one. There's a race instead of rushing, so it's more intense, then the sky itself is described as everything above. It's bigger. The first one of us says, I have prepared this agenda for people who have taqwa were at that little 13, the agenda has been prepared for the people of Taqwa. Is every Muslim someone who has taqwa, or only some Muslims? Unfortunately, the reality is not every Muslim is a motive is something we should try to get. But not everybody has it right. Align. The next idea says that Jonah is not just for people who have Taqwa, Alma, Takina Latina and Chicana Saraiva Dora. These are the people who have taqwa who at the same time spend money when it's easy and when it's difficult. Is that a bigger group of people or a smaller group of people? It's a smaller group of people and welcome them, and by the way. These are also the people who swallow their anger. Will county mental hospital. They swallow their anger. So not only are they have taqwa, they also spend when it's easy, when it's hard and they swallow. Their anger is that a larger group of people or even a smaller group of people know it keeps getting smaller. Well, Athena and Athena's Not only do they swallow their anger, they also pardon people. They forgive people all the time. Oh, is that a huge group of people are very small group of people. The group of people described in the first set of Wyatt gets smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller, and the group of people in the next I look at it. Allah says we read that little Latina. Um, a new Bill Lahey. Well, Rosalie he it has been prepared for those who believe in the law and his messengers. Is that all of us? Do you believe do you believe in a line as messengers? Yep. And as a matter of fact, when you say messengers and you didn't say Russell gradually his messenger one. When you say usually, he then you didn't just include the people right now. The believers from the time of Moussa at the time of Jesus at the time of new at the time of any profit. All of them are included, so long as you believed in online any of his messengers at their time. And even now, is there doors to invitation open? Wider in the second I'll. It seems as though it lies not just entering into just the people of Taqwa. He's actually opening the door to anyone who believes in the law in his messengers. Why don't you rush towards the Jonah? Everybody, everybody? And now you ask. You tell me if there's an invitation into agenda, but it's very exclusive, and there's another invitation into Jenna. It's open to everybody. Which one is a bigger favor from Allah? You tell me. Virginia, that is exclusive is a favor from Allah or the open invitation is an extra favor from a law so open invitation Open Invitation is a huge favor from a law, because I started thinking the only people who will make it into a very exclusive people who can control their anger and forgive people and only spend, and that's it just nice for them to me, Uh, you don't do that. I have anger problems and I got you know, my taco goes up and down and, you know, I don't know and I don't have a lot of money. And when I do, I'd like to buy chocolate and, like, I'm not always spending for the sake of the law. So I am I am I even making it agenda In the first one, you might say, there's a there's it's tougher. And the 2nd 1, all right, really, I can get the gender. Is it less sure about this, you and me? And so what does he do? He tells me something so perfect. In the second one, when he opened the gates wide open, he said, Malika Abdulahi, That is a less favor. He didn't say that is a less favor in the first one, he said. That was a less favor in the second one. And Hadid. Why? Because he opened the gates wider and that's like favor from the Lord. He didn't have to open it wider. He could have made Jenna exclusive. He could have repeated what he said, another Imran for the exclusive group, but he said no. The exclusive have agenda. Sure, but I want to give this huge. And now it's gonna be lonely in there for you people. Let's let everybody give them all an invitation that is in favor of a lot. He gives it to whoever he wants. So how to love what? The perfection of speech. You see, if you you would even ask how come it says Aleka Fadlallah, you shot? That is the favor of Allah. He gives it to whoever he wants. He should have said that in the first one. To No, no, no. And the first one, the favor of Allah is not like the favor of a lion. The second one. So you put it in the second one. The perfection of speech, the placement of words. This is my favourite one. So I gotta adjust this, fix myself, and make sure you guys, I need you to stand up. Wake up because I want your attention on this one. Stand up. Stand up. Do it again. Come on. Just I'm gonna stretch my next to the weather. Get this one right. You don't get that before,

Ms. Linda, I pray that gives me the clarity of speech to give you this lesson properly. It's one of those.

The Koran has at least three words for choice. I'll repeat myself. The Koran has at least three words for choice. There's an ER. There's an esta en el debe. There are three words for choice. If they are comes from the word higher, you know what higher means. What's right. Good. If the art is when you make a good choice, when you make a good choice, it's called. Or when you make a choice based on the good in something that's also called to is, the far is used when you make a choice and it's personal. In other words, there was no outside influence. Nobody pushed you or pressured you or convinced you or sold you to make a choice. It was entirely from you that the choice came because it comes from software which is purity testifies to make a pure choice, meaning purely your own. It's purely your own. Nobody else had any say in it. That's just a fact. Let me give you an example of this data. Well, no. Before I'll give you example of HD, but the third one, str When you choose something good, it's different when it's a pure choice of your own will and and each debe when it's a choice based on qualifications, a choice based on qualifications that needs a little bit of an explanation. In childhood, you'll understand when you go for a job interview, some of you work in human resources, so your job is to do the interviews. So five different people apply for a job. Okay, when they apply for a job, you have to look for what? What do you look for, what color shirt they're wearing? What's there? What's the what shoe size? What do you look for? Is this the right person for this job? If it's a job that requires teaching, then you're not looking for a mechanic. You have to have the right person with the right qualifications. Was the best fit for your company to do this job, you understand. So the interview process is when you pick someone based on you make a choice, but the choice is based on your what qualifications? Who's the right man for the job? When I go to the store with my wife and I'm about to buy some chocolate as soon as we're about to check out, they put the candy right next to the checkout aisle. So I pick up a Kit Kat and she says, Why did you pick the Kit Kat? Why didn't you pick the Twix? What's wrong with the M and M's? What you have to get Cat? And I said, Well, according to the laws of thermodynamics, I like Kit Kat. Why did I pick it? Cat? Because I like it. Does it go to buy a shirt? This is why did you pick the green shirt? Why didn't you pick the blue one? The white one, The orange one. The purple one. Bronwyn? Well, actually, according to the laws of gravity, I like green. Why am I picking the green shirt? What's my explanation at the end? I like it. That's it. It's my own choice. That's leave me alone, Woman. Okay, you understand? It's my choice. But when I go and do a job interview and somebody says, Why did you hire him? And I said, Well, because he was eating Good guy. Uh huh. And he had a green shirt on That's not a good reason to hire someone. When you hire someone, you look at their what qualifications. Now look at the Zayat and subtle hodge. These are ending out of so little hedge. Allah says Allah. Hu. Yeah, stuffy middle biological Jerusalem women ANAs Allah chooses from among his angels and from among the human beings. He chooses certain people to be messengers, meaning some angels become messengers and some human beings become messengers. And who chooses them? Allah does. But the word he uses is that testify to what do you remember about a list, if a Is that a choice? That is good, a choice that is purely one zone or a choice that is made based on qualifications, a choice that is purely one's own? This was important to say, because some members of the Jewish community came to the prophets of Allah. Who said, Why would God pick an Arab? And some others said, Wait, which angel brings you? Revelation job? Really? Yeah, We had some problems with him in the past. I would have accepted this message if any other angel was there. But we've had some issues with Gabriel, So sorry we can't accept. In other words, the idea was that a LA chose and he should have consulted us first. And also the courage said Lola, New Zealand Cholera, Julie Middle. Carry out any of them. How come this didn't come down to one of the two celebrities in the town? They were. We have some tribe leaders, millionaires, billionaires. We have some rich people in the city. The city. If they became profits, we would have listened to them because we listened to them already. Why would he pick an orphan? Why would you pick a guy who you know has no snow political status? No, nothing. Nobody listens to him, you know. Why would he pick in? Maybe the angel got the wrong address. Who came to the wrong house? This is the claim. They made a low response to this claim and says, Listen, This is how this was my process for picking messengers. Allah did the act. Of which one? It's the fat. What does this does that mean? It is purely his choice. You have how much say in it and then you get to say nothing. You get to be quiet. And does he owe you an explanation for what he picks. No, he picks Jabareen. He picks the loss of the language and you don't get to say why. And why not? You don't get to say what one word describes you don't get to say yes so far, A large hose. I don't know why that's it shows. I'm happy with it. Done. This was how Olympics Who this is, how love pigs profits. The next idea is about how Olympics, you and me to be Muslim because you and I are Muslim, not because we were born in a Muslim family, not because we're living in a Muslim country or whatever. We are Muslim because Allah decided that we will be. I'll say Allah chose us a lot. Chose every one of you. Why didn't you choose us to be Muslim? Which word for choice will he use? He says. Who wants to become? Yeah, I do feel a jihadi who wants to come. Oh my God, I have confidence and courage. He has selected you HD Bob. What do you remember about HD? But a choice based on what? Oh, that means that let's you and me become Muslim Because according to Allah, you and I have certain qualifications. Really? Hugh and I have certain qualifications. Yep, it's in the Koran. That's true. How do we understand this point? Let me give you a silly example again. So you can internalize what's going on here. You go for a job interview. The job interview has to do with programming and you have no knowledge of programming. But you applied anyway. You're just putting your resume and you're lucky. When he lost your own and they called you, they called you and you're sitting in the interview and you're sitting there and yeah, he's like, Yeah, this is a lead programmer position. You must have 10 years of experience. You must know the following languages C plus plus job, blah, blah, blah, blah. And you're like I know ABC. I know. You know, under technical skills, you wrote down Google like and this guy is going on and on and on about the technical requirements for this job, and you're sitting there going When is this painful torture going to end? Let me just go home. I'm embarrassed enough as it is clearly in the first one minute I knew I'm not qualified but this guy keeps explaining the job more and more and more. He won't stop it. Please stop and let me go home and cry to myself. Please, I need to go now. He stops describing the job description and says, Okay, well, congratulations. You start tomorrow. I know you're like, uh uh huh. And the interviewer says to you, Listen, I know you think you're not qualified, but I've been doing this a long time. I know you can do this. I know a good learner when I see one. You don't see yourself as an excellent employee here, but I know what my experience tells me You're going to do the right job. I believe in you. The interviewer believes in you more than you even believed in yourself. Now let's go back to a lost panel. Data. Does anyone of us thank a lot like he deserves to be thanked? No. Does anyone of us praise to Allah like he deserves to be prayed to? Nope. Anyone remember a lot like he deserves to be remembered. No. Allah says, Here's the job of a Hindu philosophy. Hakka jihadi struggle in the path of Allah with no goal in front of you except Allah, like he deserves to be struggled for struggle like he deserves it. I'll put it in easy English struggle. Do my work like I deserve? It allows saying. Is that an easy job description or a hard job description? That is an impossible job description. Nobody can do a jihadi that's impossible. Unless I do it like it's worthy of me. Do it like I would deserve it. I can't give a lot what he deserves. That's impossible. So by saying this, he necessarily made me unqualified. When he started the idea, he declared the job. That is impossible. Therefore, I am, by definition, unqualified. So I am ready to walk out the room and he says, Who edged back? Um, he, based on your qualifications, selected you, and I said, uh, I can't do it. I mean, you see some qualification in me. I don't even see it in myself. I can't do it unless has relax. Uh, confidence. Courage. He did not put any difficulty in the religion for you at all. Relax, I'll make it easy. I know what I said In the beginning, you have to struggle like I deserve it. I know that's impossible. And I know I pick you. And now he's letting you know. By the way, by the way, I'll make it easy. I wouldn't make anything hard on you. Relax. So now, even though the job is impossible unless says he will make it easy. So I become calm again, I say. Okay. Okay. Okay. I can do this because unless said he will make it easy, he will remove all difficulty from it. So I calm down for a second. Then he starts describing the job and he says Milan to become Ibrahim. By the way, you are on the same train and the same legacy and the same struggle as your father. Who? Which profit did you hear? Ibrahim? Oh, just told me it's not going to be hard at all. And then he told me By the way, you're gonna be just like Ibrahim, Like uh, yeah, right. I saw that wasn't hard at all. Jumping into a fire. Easy, easy. Take a knife. Take your son.

I want to do that all the time. Tell your father and get kicked out of the house. Go become homeless. Go stand up to a tyrant ruler. Sacrifice your family in the middle of a desert? Does this stuff sound easy? That doesn't sound easy to me. And the loss has just now, he told me. It's not going to be hard. Then he reminds me of Ibrahim, Ali said. By the way, I think jumping in the fire must have been easier. But putting a knife to your child's neck, how you did that? It's beyond me. It was beyond me. Even even the knife to the child's like Forget the knife, the child's neck. Taking your family in the middle of a desert with a baby and leaving the wife and baby there thought to me, Have you ever gone on a trip with your family? If their kids in the back, what do they do? It's too hot. Turn the athe up. I want to. I want to drink water. Give me some water. Give me some juice. Do you have to go to the bathroom? Because I drank too. What? Jews like God, the real jihad. Visibility love for you and me is the road trip itself, right? It's so hard with Children. What kind of air conditioning did his camel have when they're going on the road trip in the desert with a baby. You know, the wife said something like, The baby is really hot. Can't you turn it on more? Get your old lower the window Told you was a bad idea And his wife is going with the baby in the middle of a desert And they go and they sit in the middle of the sand And he says, See you,

that sounds easy. Oh, him having to walk away from that. That's incredible. And then that same son, he Years later, he's grown up. Now the father comes back and there's a reunion. And the sun doesn't say you're the one who left us in the middle of the desert, right? Dad, Thanks a lot for that. We're okay now. What do you want me to do? Well, what do you What do you want me to do? Oh, Oh, you want to? You okay? What an amazing family. It's an amazing family. If Alma mater, the son says, Do whatever you've been told. It's an incredible thing. So now Ibrahim Al Salam is being compared to my struggle. I brought this up because none of it sounds easy. And actually, all of it sounds impossible. All of it, by definition sounds impossible. But the lesson here is profound. Ally is telling you and me if Allah can make the impossible Easy for Ibrahim and Saddam. What are you going to complain about? What excuse do you have? Do you have to jump into a fire? Am I asking you to do that? It lies asking. What am I asking you? I'm not asking much from you. If I can make those impossible things easy, you've got no problems at all to become Ibrahim, who are saying that he's the one who named you Muslims to Panama. This is HD. But the point here is every single Muslim, every single Muslim who was either born in a Muslim family or came and took the shahada every single one of them. Allah sees something in them that is worthy of struggling for him. Otherwise you would not be. You would not have the honor. I would not have the honor of saying La la la la la la Mohammad Rasoul! Allah! Allah! Allah. These words are not cheap. They are a gift from Allah and it is not given freely. It is not given freely, especially the young audience here. You have to ask yourself, What is it that Allah sees in me? That may be so far? I haven't even seen in myself because the last season in me, because he says It's the back home. It must be there. I better find it. And then I better put it to use for his dean. I better do something good with it. I better find what it is. And no two people have the same skills. No two people have the same contribution. You know, I asked me to talk. I can talk forever, asked me to do some administrative task. I will destroy your organization. Asked me to be in charge of communications. You will have a blackout. You know, there are things I'm good at. And there are things I'm terrible at. There are things there. There are people who are people of research. There are people of, you know, administration. There are people of contributions in writing. People can contribute in different ways. You have to find which way are you going to contribute in? That's all Inside Who aged? Tobacco Okay. Do you have the stamina for 10 more minutes? You can handle it. All right, so we'll do this One more. We can do this one more. There are two words for the heart and the Koran. There's Kalb, and there's odd Kalb, and I'll write that on the screen for you again. For the two of you now that are taking notes, the numbers are decreasing his heart and for odd is also

heart. Okay, they're both used in the Koran. Uh, the word Fouad is unusual. The word cult is typical. The word cult is basically used for the heart. It comes from a column, which is to change because the heart is constantly changing, shifting, position beating and also figuratively. Your feelings are always changing. Your emotions are changing, so that's illustrated in the word bulb for odd comes from roasting for other, for adult lamb to roast meat on an open flame to put the flesh under intense temperature. Islam feed roasted flesh. The idea of a heart being roasted is the idea of a heart intensified fired up. In other words, when your emotions are excited when you are extremely angry or you are extremely, uh, scared or you're extremely courageous or you're extremely happy. Any extreme emotion. What do you use for odd under normal circumstances? What do you use? Okay, so there are two examples of it when I when I will give you now before the break and one in the hotel A after the break when we come back. One example of what I want to give you is in the Samara. Well, Basara, Sanada, Lula Ika Kana and Miss Eula. Alice has no doubt about it. The seeing or the hearing and the seeing and the odd Each of them will be interrogated as far as with him. Each of them will be asked about meaning On judgment day, you will be asked about what you heard. You'll be asked about what you saw and you will also be asked about your heart. But which kind of heart didn't mention in the idea? Four ad for ad for others. Normal, harder, excited heart. It's an excited heart. So why I mentioned the excited heart in this area. Just one or two benefits of that I want to mention to you now in the United States, we have an interesting genre, an industry relief of, you know, medical psychology, clinical psychology. And it's playing a role also now in the judiciary system. So, for instance, there's a driver who is driving at 120 mph, and the police are running after him, and eventually they catch up to him. And when they catch him, they not only drag him out of the car, they give him a few beat downs, and it's all caught on video. And he sues them because this police brutality and the police lawyer then makes the case that at high speeds the adrenaline is high in the body. And so there are certain chemical reactions in the brain that make you become more aggressive. And so it wasn't the police officer's fault. It was the chemicals in his brain that beat that guy. There's a medical explanation for why that happened. Don't hold him responsible. I'll give you another example. Sometimes you've had a bad day at work. Gentlemen, you've had a bad day at work. And when you've had a bad day at work and you got stuck in traffic for a long time, you finally get home she's been home. When you're in a bad mood, who gets to receive your bad mood? Easy victim. So she opens the door. I don't know if I told you the story before. I don't care if I did. I'll tell you again.

She decided that she's going to dress nicely for you and put makeup on and make your favorite dish and put a candle light at the dinner table. She even took her glasses off. But you're in a bad mood because you were stuck in traffic and your boss was yelling at you and you didn't finish your task in time and all of these problems. So you opened the door and she's standing right at the door. So how'd it go? But you're in a bad mood. So what do you do? You look at her face and you say, You think taking your glasses off makes you look better?

And she says, No, taking my glasses off makes you look better. Mm hmm. Sure. Oh, so But anyway, so you guys have a fight. Whatever. You know, things aren't good. Words are exchanged. He starts eating the food and, he says, is the economy that bad you couldn't put some more salt in here. Is it really that difficult? You know, I specifically asked you for water. Why are you giving me orange juice? Etcetera, etcetera. And she says, Well, you know what? If you really want oranges, go squeeze some oranges yourself. And then he gets angry at her and he walks out of the house. He walks out of the house, Then he comes back after two hours. She's already lying down, pretending to sleep. So he comes over and he says, Hey, she doesn't say anything. Hey, I know you're awake. And she goes, What? Hey, come on. Sorry. Yeah. Okay, fine. Whatever. No. No. Sorry. Mm hmm. No, no, you don't understand. I had a long day at work. I got stuck in traffic. My boss yelled at me. I was so stressed out that wasn't me. That was my full odd. Yeah. Mm. This is me.

I hope you're understanding the point. I'm trying to make sure sometimes we misbehave. We speak inappropriately, we lash out in anger. We do things that we shouldn't have done. And we say, Well, that wasn't really me. That was I got really excited at the time, so you can't hold that against me. It was in the heat of the moment, right? And so people say that when they are really angry, they say things they don't mean or when they are really excited. They do things they shouldn't have done. But you can't hold it against them because that's not fair, because that wasn't my college. That was just my for our. So I don't hold my four ad against me. It was exciting times, you know, what can I do? And the law says Not in my court, not in my court. I will interrogate you about your hearing and you're seeing and your For God so you will not be able to justify your behavior. Sometimes there are fathers who are so angry with their sons. They yell and they scream and they abuse and they insult. And then the sun is like, almost suicidal. And he's lying down in his bed, 18 year old boy crying in his bed, and his mother comes up to me and says, you know, your father loves you. He gets like that sometimes It's okay. He just gets like that. Sometimes there is No, he gets like that sometimes with a lot. There is no explanation. Oh, it's just odd. That's the old way of saying no, no, there's no justification. You know, he doesn't really mean it. He doesn't really mean. Well, it got recorded anyway, and you will be asked, and you don't get this in front of a lot. You know, like I get like that sometimes. What can I do that that's a problem. There are some young men who have a very hot temper. Really hot temper easily. Just flare up playing some sports, talking. Somebody looks at you. What would you say that, uh, hold me back. Hold me back.

You don't know, bro. When I get angry, bro, I just I become the Hulk. I don't even know what happened. I don't remember anything like okay. Yeah. So you're blaming her for us again? The the point of the area is one of the points of the idea is we do not get to blame. Are excited emotional states to justify our behavior. You don't get to say I was really scared. That's why I lied. Not good enough. I was really angry. That's why I hit you. Not good enough. You're not good enough for God is going to be interrogated. It's not off the hook Panel to the analysis of the Koran of why people misbehave is so precise. If only bulb was mentioned, then you might get away with something for others mentioned. So you don't get away with anything, so how to love?
