السلام عليكم ورحمة الله تعالى وبركاته الحمد لله رب العالمين والصلاة والسلام على أشرف الأنبياء والمرسلين وعلى آله وصحبه أجمعين, أما بعد So we've done some discussions on the near coherence. I feel that that suffices for the purpose that I wanted to communicate to you. That within surahs there's a progressive developing argument that leads from the beginning to a conclusion. The second thing I want to share with you, as far as coherence within surahs is concerned, is the concept of anchors. So I'm gonna take a little bit of time and explain the notion of anchors to you before we get into that subject matter. Okay? The term is something that I've kind of made up. I don't know what else to call it, but there are words in the Qur'an in a surah, or themes, ideas inside of a surah that are related to each other. So, for example, in Baqarah, you might find wording that has to do with buying or selling or trade or loan. All of that revolves business transactions, right? So you're going to find that kind of terminology occur in obvious contexts. Of course, there are aayaat about buying and selling and loaning and trading and all of that, but you'll find that kind of language also in "they sell the aayaat of Allah", "somebody who sold himself to please Allah", or "they have purchased this life in exchange for the next" etcetera, etcetera. So you're going to find that kind of verbage recur in unexpected places. And that's actually kind of like, you know how there's a mental note - I remember back in the day, there used to be these hot links in the text - I don't know if we still do that, because it's a primitive thing - but you, you can click it and it fast forwards to the part of the page where that text is found. But this kind of this kind of, this kind of an idea where, you know, because of the wording used particularly it reminds you of an aayah that you just came across, or phrase that you just came across, or an image that you just came across. And these are anchors that tie ideas together that otherwise, are unsuspecting. I want you - this is probably the easiest study of Nazam in the Qur'an, one aspect of coherence and how things are tied together is how similar wording occurs. So, for instance, um, Surat al-Israa'. The word Qur'an itself is an anchor in Surat al-Israa' and Surat Bani Israa'eel. Or, for example, in Surat al-Dukhaan. If you read Surat al-Dukhaan on your own and you pay attention to the word "mubeen", it'll come up over and over and over again, in different contexts will be "dukhaanun mubeen", "rasoolun mubeen". You know there'll be different "mubeen" contexts, and it's kind of - it's almost as though there's a - there's a demand to connect those dots together and to look at them as a whole. So there are going to be two examples of anchors that we're going to cover One of them I'll cover immediately now, but the other one in shaa Allah when I - when I discuss the structural analysis of Surat al-Fath, surah number 48, then the anchor will come up anyway. It'll kind of become part of that discussion and you'll see that anchor and I'll make mention of that. So really, we're only doing two case studies of anchors for the purposes of this course. So the anchor study that I want to do is a very simple one, but a very powerful one, and that belongs to Surat Yaseen. Okay, it's in Surat Yaseen. And it's not like every surah, by the way, has one anchor. It can have multiple strands of anchors. There can be multiple terms that are recurring and are connected together. Um, just to give you some idea of some maybe more examples that are popping in my head while, Iman and the heart, Iman and the heart are anchors in Baqarah. So "qalb" comes up over and over again and becoming hard, in their hearts there's a disease, uh, and you know so the qalb will keep coming up over and over again. And so will the notion of Iman, of faith. By contrast, obedience and Islam are going to come up over and over again in Aali 'Imraan. So here you have "Iman". And there you have "Islam". Even though "Islam" occurs in both surahs. But the frequency of Islam and the way it occurs in Aali 'Imraan is different. And the way Iman occurs in Baraqah is different. Okay, so those would be kind of like - it's a simple way of Allah 'Azza wa Jall, sort of developing the notion of Iman here and then furthering the notion of Islam there. Okay, in any case. Surat Yaseen which we will come back to for multiple reasons today, includes a really interesting story, an account that is not found anywhere else in the Qur'an. It's a story of a nation in which, to which not just one but two, and eventually three messengers were sent. Okay, so three messengers at the same time are delivering the message to one single nation. Okay? And they speak to the nation
فَعَزَّزْنَا بِثَالِثٍ إِذْ أَرْسَلْنَآ إِلَيْهِمُ ٱثْنَيْنِ فَكَذَّبُوهُمَا فَعَزَّزْنَا بِثَالِثٍ We sent two to them. They called both of them liars. Then we reinforced them with the third one, فَقَالُوٓا۟ إِنَّآ إِلَيْكُم مُّرْسَلُونَ Then they all three of them said, "We're messengers sent to you" and they were disregarded. They were considered a bad omen, a curse, and people just, you know, disbelieved in them. And then Allah describes a fourth. The fourth is not a messenger. It's a person who came from another town. The other end of the city there called "qariyah". And this is this is Madinah they وَجَآءَ مِنْ أَقْصَا ٱلْمَدِينَةِ رَجُلٌ يَسْعَىٰ So from the end of the city, far end, a man comes running And this man then speaks and he is recorded in, I think about 11 aayaat, are dedicated just to his speech. So what's really peculiar about this story is that three messengers were talking and there's just a couple of aayaat, one or two aayaat for what they had to say. And then this man came who was not a messenger, and when he spoke, his speech is the longest part of the story. And you would think, just as far as typical protocol is concerned when a messenger is there, a believer should be what? Quiet. They are much more qualified to speak than I am. So let them speak. And even more interesting that their account is less discussed in the surah and Allah Himself discusses his account more, and this is actually to highlight an interesting notion that everyone has their responsibilities. The messengers have their responsibility, they're doing their job. But the one who believes in the messengers also has a responsibility, and he cannot put that off on even messengers. That's a very powerful lesson, and as a matter of fact Allah acknowledges his contribution even more. Because he didn't sit back and say, well, unlike any other nation, they didn't just get one messenger, they got three. So I should just sit back.
There's enough people doing the right job for me not to, and I don't - I'm not even from this town, I'm from the far end of the city. These people don't even know me. Why would they even listen to me? But he comes and he sees himself as someone who can contribute, who feels an urge to deal with them, to talk to them, to convince them. Maybe I'll bring them a point of view the messengers are not going to bring because they've already rejected them as messengers. Maybe they'll see me as just one among themselves. Maybe I can relate to them differently, and he builds on all of that and communicates his message to them. That's a pretty important lesson for Muslims to internalize today, because we sometimes have this notion that there are good people in the community. Maybe there's an imam in the community, a scholar in the community, a teacher in the community. Somebody is there to do good. They're already doing their job. I don't have to. There's other people that are already carrying out the work. That notion is shattered by this story. It's completely destroyed by this story.
Whether you're by yourself - then you then you're reminded of the Prophet's words
صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ بلغوا عني ولو آية Communicate on my behalf, even if it's one aayah and that that communication was not given to -
بلغوا عني ولو آية إذا قرأتمو التفاسير وأخذتمو الإجازات في التجويد ثم بلغو عني ولو آية Once finished reading all the tafaseer of an aayah and then do the grammatical analysis and then get your ijazah in tajweed and then you can talk about an aayah He's talking to people that became Muslim the day before. He's talking to Muslims that have been Muslim for 20 years. He's talking to Muslims that took Shahadah that day, go and communicate on my behalf,
even if it's a single aayah. Is that a different sentiment than the way we carry Islam today? It is, It is. We feel like, well, first of all, other people are doing the job. Second of all, we're not qualified. Who's asking you to interpret Islamic law? The aayaat of the Qur'an are not just there for complex theological or legal discourse. The aayaat of the Qur'an are there for a reminder, for counsel, for softening hearts. Softening hearts - that's something that anyone can do. That's not just something that very highly qualified are supposed to do. And what are what are one man's qualifications compared to three messengers? Nothing. How is he? What position is he to speak? But when it comes to reminder and giving counsel in giving advice and something of benefit, everybody is equally qualified and actually responsible. Everybody's responsible. Okay, now the anchor that I want to refer to - I wanted to give you this background to the story - then Allah switches the subject and starts talking about signs of creation. Story is done. وَءَايَةٌ لَّهُمُ ٱلْأَرْضُ ٱلْمَيْتَةُ أَحْيَيْنَـٰهَا وَأَخْرَجْنَا مِنْهَا حَبًّا فَمِنْهُ يَأْكُلُونَ He starts talking about the earth that was dead, and you know, fruits come out of it and you eat from it. Then there's a particular aayah that uses the word "yanbaghee". Allah 'Azza wa Jall says وَٱلشَّمْسُ تَجْرِى لِمُسْتَقَرٍّ لَّهَا The sun flows according to a station and a schedule that is dedicated for it. ذَٰلِكَ تَقْدِيرُ ٱلْعَزِيزِ ٱلْعَلِيمِ That is the decree, and that is the calculation, of the One who has the ultimate authority and the One who knows everything. وَٱلْقَمَرَ قَدَّرْنَـٰهُ مَنَازِلَ And the moon We break it down into stages حَتَّىٰ عَادَ كَٱلْعُرْجُونِ ٱلْقَدِيمِ until it turns into an old - it looks like an old dried up, uh, you know, a part of a palm tree, لَا ٱلشَّمْسُ يَنۢبَغِى لَهَآ أَن تُدْرِكَ ٱلْقَمَرَ It's not appropriate for the sun to go to the place of the moon. The sun has its own orbit. The moon has its own orbit. It's not right
for the sun to go and take over the moon. وَلَا ٱلَّيْلُ سَابِقُ ٱلنَّهَارِ and nor is it right for the night to get ahead of the day. وَكُلٌّ فِى فَلَكٍ And all of them have their own circular orbits يَسْبَحُونَ in which they are swimming. They all have their own paths, their own trajectories that they need to take. The word that I wanted to highlight as an anchor is "yanbaghee". The word "yanbaghee" occurs only twice in this surah. "Yanbaghee" means for something to be appropriate, and it's not appropriate for the sun to take over the moon. That's the aayah. By the end of the surah, Allah says about the Prophet
صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ وَمَا عَلَّمْنَـٰهُ ٱلشِّعْرَ وَمَا يَنۢبَغِى لَهُۥٓ We didn't teach him poetry at all, nor is it something appropriate for him. Okay?
وَمَا يَنۢبَغِى لَهُۥٓ So the word "yanbaghee" occurs for two entities. On the one hand it occurs for the sun and the other it occurs. For who? The Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ
Okay. Interestingly enough, in other places in the Qur'an, Allah 'Azza wa Jall says وَدَاعِيًا إِلَى ٱللَّهِ بِإِذْنِهِۦ وَسِرَاجًا مُّنِيرًا Allah has sent the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ I have sent you as a caller to Allah by his leave, and I have sent you as a brilliant lamp, as a brilliant lamp. The term used for the Prophet, to describe the Prophet, is what? سِرَاجًا مُّنِيرًا
Okay, The Allah 'Azza wa Jall says, تَبَارَكَ ٱلَّذِى جَعَلَ فِى ٱلسَّمَآءِ بُرُوجًا وَجَعَلَ فِيهَا سِرَٰجًا وَقَمَرًا مُّنِيرًا How blessed is the One who placed constellations in the sky and put a lamp in it and an illuminating moon. Well, what's the lamp? What's the lamp? When Allah says Allah put constellations in the sky and a brilliant lamp? The sun In Surat Yaseen "yanbaghee"was used for the sun, and "yanbaghee" was used for the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ. In other places in the Qur'an, the Prophet is called a lamp, and so is the sun, also called a lamp. There seems to be a correlation between the sun and the Prophet
صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ in the Qur'an. Do you understand? And nowhere is that more visible than in Surat Yaseen, when even the same verb is associated with both of these entities, the sun and Rasool Allah
صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ Now, before I talk to you about the sun and the moon and the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ being described as the sun,
I went somewhere else. I described to you the story of three messengers and one man. It seemed that all of that was unrelated. But wait a second. What is the relationship between the sun and the moon? Do they have the same orbit? No. What is the relationship between a messenger and his followers? Do they have the same responsibilities? Does the Messenger's responsibility absolve the follower from his responsibilities? Just because the messengers are doing dawah, should the follower who came afterwards not do his own work? No, they both have their own paths that they must take. Just like the sun has its own path, and the moon has its own path. Now the sun has its own light, but the moon - does it have its own light? No, the moon simply reflects the light of the sun. The moon is dependent for its light from the sun. Do you see a parallel between the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ and his followers as a parallel between the sun and the moon? Because the followers of the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ, whatever light they have is only a reflection of what was given to them by the Sun, صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ You get it? That's the lamp that illuminated them. So we are to the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ, what the moon is to the sun.
Now, when the sun is there, it's brilliant, but eventually the sun goes away, and when the sun goes away, there is darkness. Except there's one thing left. It's not quite like the lamp that the sun is, but there's still a lamp in the sky. And what lamp is that? In the absence of the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ The only reflection of the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ left in the world will be his followers. We are a glimpse of the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ to the world.
We are ambassadors, like أنا رسول رسول الله
صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ The existence of the moon and it's shining the light of the sun, even if you can't see the sun, is actually an indication that we represent, we reflect the teachings of the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ just like the moon reflects the light of the sun. Take it a step further. The sun doesn't necessarily have phases, but the moon - What happens to it? It has a full moon. It's brilliant. And then it starts weakening, weakening, weakening to the point where it's
عَادَ كَٱلْعُرْجُونِ ٱلْقَدِيمِ Then it starts strengthening again and rises again, and it's back to full moon again. And then it gets weak again. Sometimes what happens to the ummah of a prophet is that the light that they reflect from their messenger becomes so so so, so weak you can barely see anything. It's barely visible, and then they're back up on a decline - or on a on a rise until they become a full moon again. But is even the full rise of an ummah permanent? No. Then decline can come to them again, and they can rise again. The ummah, like a believer, will go through phases. The Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ Allah says about him, لِنُثَبِّتَ بِهِۦ فُؤَادَكَ So that we can firm your heart. The Prophet's heart صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ is always constant. Is a believer's heart always constant? Is a believer's heart always reflecting the light of the Prophet's teaching the same way? No, it's actually going through phases, just like the moon goes through phases. So by that tiny little anchor "yanbaghee", some profound lessons are taught about our relationship with the Messenger of Allah صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ and how, no matter how - you can't even compare what the Prophet صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ did, the light that he shines on the world, to what we're gonna do. There's no comparison between the light that the sun produces and what it does to the earth, and what the moon produces. There's still darkness on the earth. But for those - that still doesn't take the responsibility of the moon away. It has its own course to play. It has its own role to play, no matter how imperfect it gets. Even if this this little light left, you still have to shine it. Even if it's not perfect, even if it's not a full moon. So that would be one of my favorite anchors in the Qur'an, because it's just mind blowing to me. Just through the word "yanbaghee", okay?
