Yeah.

Mhm.

Ibrahim. Well, actually, in the Linsanity Latina amateur, I mean, you heard what? I was happy. What? I was always a memorable, I mean, from Amazon. I'd like to start today by wrapping up some things from section six in your notes. That is on page 14 and, inshallah, Hautala thereafter. I'm going to I don't know how I'm going to do this is I think it's considered mission impossible. Today. What we're gonna do is we're gonna take shorter breaks today, okay? Because I can't afford to give you too much time off today, so eat fast and pray slowly. I can't tell you to pray fast, pray slowly, but eat fast and no hour break for lunch today. Sorry. We're gonna we're gonna wrap up whatever. We're gonna eat And pray in 30 minutes and be back because I just don't have enough time to cover the stuff. I really, really, really want to cover with you and I will be seriously depressed if I didn't get to finish the things that I wanted to share with you and shall. Okay, so Let's get this started in section six. I want to give you an introduction a little bit again before we get to the macro side. This is the last piece of the micro side of things. Uh, the idea of sequencing something in your speech. OK, As I'm speaking to you sometimes I mentioned two things in my sentence. I say something like, you know, the days and nights that I spent in the on vacation, etcetera, etcetera. So I mentioned days and that I mentioned nights. I ordered these two words in my head a certain way. Was I conscious of it? Not really. I just said it. It just came in my head and I said it. I could have Maybe in another conversation, I could have said the nights and days that I spent there were awesome. In other words, I say day and nights and subconsciously, sometimes I say nights and days. And I don't really think about that sort of thing because people, when they speak human beings when we speak, there are conscious parts of our speech. And there are also subconscious parts of our speech. And we're not really in control all the time of the subconscious parts of our speech. Right? So if you're used to saying things a certain way. You always say them the same way. So if you're used to seeing boys and girls subconsciously, you always say What boys and girls, you almost never say girls and boys. And actually, when you say girls and boys, you have to consciously think about it. So what happens in our heads? This is kind of like speech pathology and linguistics combined a little bit in our conscience. We get used to saying things a certain way, and that just becomes the natural way for us to communicate. So if you like putting something first and something second, it's just the way you do it now. The interesting thing is that the Koran, from a linguistic perspective, is really remarkable because Allah breaks these patterns all the time. He doesn't stick to one way of saying something like, for example, he doesn't just say Well, look who's here. And every time, he says, Well built and well, sometimes he says, Well, don't be mad at noon,

he changes it now for a normal human being who's used to saying something repeatedly they would fit. They would say it one way, and they will stick to that one way and they'll never change it. It would just not be possible for them. But a lot of changes it over and over and over again on multiple occasions. And sometimes he changes it so quickly that actually human beings in our natural speech, we can't even keep up. We can't do that so rapidly in our speech, the way Allah does that in his speech. So I'm going to give you some examples of how that is so incredible in the Koran. Something that we consciously human beings consciously, are incapable of doing. We're just incapable of it. A lot at school who are Rama new. Um, and maybe this is a nice little milk. This is on page 14 in that first section. I'm zooming in on it here. You guys can see it now, right? All Who are Rahman who say he is a Rahman Amenable. He we have believed in him. We believed in him were Ala Moana. And upon him we rely. I want you to look at this carefully. We believe in him upon him. We rely. There's actually a strange rearrangement. If you have a certain speech pattern, you say we believe in him. We rely upon him. Isn't that how you would say it? But one part of the statement was in normal ordering. We believe in him the other part of the statement immediately unless switched over and said instead of saying we rely upon him which is not set in the Koran, what is said is upon him we rely upon him. We rely immediate switch. Now these kinds of changes in sequence inside of a sentence, they have a reason if you go back a little bit A couple of days ago when we were much younger on Friday night I told you about normal order and strange order. Do you remember that? And normal order and strange order For those of you that are students of the Arabic language, this is the subject matter of attack team. Right? And there are four benefits of this thing in Balaka studies and all of that. But I'm not giving you that technical lesson. What I did tell you on Friday night was when you use the unusual order, then what you are adding to the discussion is the word only Remember, Hummed only belongs to Allah as opposed to hand belongs to Allah, right? So what a lie is saying then? Here is We believe in him. We believe in him, but we only rely upon him. So the second statement actually hasn't only And where did they only come from? From the unusual sequencing you guys with me so far? Now, that's incredible. That's actually incredible. Why? Because we believe in a love. But we don't only believe in a lot. We believe in a lot. We believe in the prophets. We believe in the angels. We believe in the day of judgment. We believe in the books. We believe in predestination. We believe in general. We believe in jihad. And we believe in Yokohama. You believe in lots of things. We don't just believe in one thing. Saying we only believe in the law would be a problem sequencing it as b he, um and that would be a problem. But when it comes to relying on someone, do we rely on the angels? Do we rely on the creation of Allah? Do we rely on John Mariana? What do we who do we rely on? Only and exclusively Allah. Debacle is only a matter of between us and Allah. So he switches the order immediately and makes it exclusive immediately. Only upon him do we place our trust, and this happens in a split second. That's the incredible thing. You know, we're talking about speech that happens for us. This will take me 10 minutes to explain, by the way, and at the very least I would have to have the add the word only. And by the way, I wouldn't even add the word only normally we say English translations say, Well, you know, say he is a Rahman's. He say he's the most merciful. We believe in him and we rely upon him. That's how it's translated. Wait, wait, wait. There's a problem there. We only rely upon him like, even when we're writing down a translation, which is different from speaking, because when you're writing, you can take your time and edit your words and think them through. Even then we don't think of it. And here it lies, saying it so accurately. Justin, speech. Just a split second. I want you to be aware of this reality as we go through this section. When human beings speak, they make mistakes. It is inevitable. I spoke to you for I don't know how many hours yesterday and as I was speaking to you, I am sure I made tons of grammatical mistakes. I am absolutely certain that I repeated myself several times, and as I repeat myself, it is actually considered a kind of mistake. In other words, if you took a transcript of my speech and you went through it, there would be times I would mispronounce something. There would be times where I would misspeak. There would be times where I would admit something that I should have said. There would be times that I'd say the same sentence two or 3 times. You don't write like that. You don't write an email like that. You don't write an essay like that. You don't write an article like that because you get rid of all the emissions. You get rid of all the mistakes. You get rid of all the repetitions because you go through an editorial process. When you hand in some of you, when you go to school, you go to college or university. You have a essay assignment and you hand in the professors. Some professors are very merciful. They ask you for the first draft version one. So you give it to them and they destroy it and then say, Bring me back the real version now, right? Give me, Give me the second draft and do you write your essay one time and that's it. You don't even look back. Or do you go for spell checking and correcting and taking out sentences and moving paragraphs? Do you do this? You have to do what is called an editorial process. As a matter of fact, not just you, your college students. Therefore, you're terrible at writing. But other people like authors, people who write actual books, even they write a book. And then they come up with second edition, third edition, fourth edition and the intro to the book. In the preface, they say, I'd like to thank my friends who told me to get rid of that chapter because it was really stupid, and I'd like to thank my mother, who told me I'm a loser and all of these things, like they write those things in the preface because there is such a thing as an editorial process. The incredible thing about the Koran is that it wasn't given to humanity in the form of a book. It was given to humanity in the form of speech in the form of speech and the problem with speeches. Once it leaves your words, you can no longer edit them. When you write something on paper, you can actually cross it out. You can edit it when you're typing something up until you hit. Send. You can still go back in the race. You can still change. There's an editor. There's an opportunity for you to edit. But the Koran and I would say it and you don't He doesn't get to see it and say, Wait, let me let me say that better. Hold on, Let me just give you a better version. No, you say it once and that is the final version. The version we're still reciting now the version that we're still reciting now and for that first version to be perfect is humanly impossible. That is human. That's the point we're trying to explore here. Why is this speech impossible in my belief and your belief? Why is it impossible to replicate just purely from a linguistic perspective? From speech pathology perspective. Now look at this. A lot of religion says, Let's see give you because I want to go through this one rather quickly. I'll give you this really hard ones, the ones that are harder to understand. I want to do them with you. Um, all right, let's look at this one. I have observed that he was. This is on the next page on page 15. So it'll go right towards the middle. Observed by he was my friend. Him and Willy well, usually goofy. Hook me to Abbas, I or Abbas, Sarah or Bezerra. Anyone know what that means? What has to do with it has to do with seeing Will Smith from Sem er, yes, Mariposa man. Anyone hearing. So it has to do with seeing and hearing and roughly translated the ire means absolutely he was how well he sees and how well he hears, how well he sees and how well he hears and stop talking about a lot. Now what's peculiar about this is that actually, in the rest of the Koran, consistently, a lot actually mentions seeing first and hearing second, The speech pattern of the Koran is not to mention seeing 1st. The speech pattern of the Koran is what is mentioned first hearing first and seeing is mentioned second, for instance, when Allah talks about the creation of the human being and says, Watch Donahue, Sammy and La Sierra. Okay, we made him able to see or able to here, able to see. So hearing is mentioned before seen. And this is consistent across the Koran. Even last name is Samir al Brazil. Which one will you find first? Will you find El bacillus Samir Samir Al Brazil, A semi annual basis? So the hearing, the seeing so hearing is consistently mentioned first, there are only two exceptions to this. Of the dozens of examples we're hearing always comes first two times the pattern is broken. And you would think, Why would the pattern break the two times This is one of them. Observe the he was the one underneath. It is the second one you see towards the end of Sarna was a Mirna absorption away semana, which means we see and we hear instead of saying what we hear and we see it's reversed. So the question becomes, Why change the sequence? Unusually, in this case in the first case. It's talking about the people of the cave. These young men went and hid away from their village in their city. They went hiding inside of a cave, and when they went hiding inside of a cave, the problem wasn't that nobody could hear them. The real problem was that nobody could find them. Nobody could see them. Nobody could see them. And so in that context, what Allah wanted to highlight first and foremost was nobody knew where they were, but how well, unless he's you understand, there was a reason to highlight that. First. Additionally, first of all, you don't even know where they are. But Allah. Not only does he have full view of what's going on inside the darkness of a cave, he also has complete details the smallest details of the most intimate conversations that are happening among friends inside of this cave. There's no microphone there. There is no camera there. There is no journalist there taking notes. They are not transcribing their conversation. There is no historical record of what happened inside the cave except the only witness. There is a lot, and he's recording this conversation, which leads me to another point on the side. The Koran has its unique perspective on history because usually when you read a book of history, you get the perspective of an author. You get the perspective of a researcher, you get the perspective of someone who who's gone through the accounts of other people. When you're reading the Koran and you're reading history, who is the actual historian Allah himself? You're getting a less perspective on history in the Koran, not a historian perspective, not a scholar's perspective, not a human perspective. It's remarkable. And when a historian writes his history, I'm still on that side. Note because it's important. When a historian writes history, he mentions the details that he thinks are important. Okay, so he will mention the army was made up of approximately 3000 soldiers. They traveled from north to south. They traveled for three months. The battle went on for four years. Whatever, whatever hell mentioned the big details. You're not going to find a historian that is going to say. And by the way, there was a conversation that happened between two soldiers over lunch. Here's what it was. You're not gonna find it. Why? Because the historian says. That is not an important detail. I need to give you the overall picture. You understand, they don't they skip the details and they don't even have access to those details. Who's going to record a conversation between two guys over lunch? And then you look at the Koran and these young men are sleeping and then they wake up and they wake up and they say, Hey, man, how long were you sleeping? And the other one says, Uh, I think your men are back my own. I think it was a day. No, no, no. It wasn't a whole day. No, no, that's crazy. The sun's still out. It must have been an hour, probably on some part of a day. I think we had a power nap and the other guy, another guy says, Man, who cares? They part of the day? I'm hungry. I couldn't be. What if the commodity like Medina Dude, forget about Allah knows better. Okay, who cares about this conversation? We need to eat. Let's go. Let's collect money. How much you got? How much you got? How much you got? Give it to this guy because this guy knows all the restaurants. He knows the good spots to eat. You go out and get his food, bro. What? You want me to go back into the village? They're looking for us in the village. They're gonna arrest us. Just watch out. Just watch out. Be careful, okay? I don't act all like, just act normal, okay? Will you tell a POV? The Koran says, Well, you're just Just be chill, dude. Let's take it easy. So when you go into the city, just take it easy. Well, you're gonna become a hot and don't let anybody know what you're really up to. Don't order like 15 bags of food. One guys walking in, like, 15 bags of food. Where's this guy going? All that food, you know? Well, I was hungry. You know this Really? It seems like a really casual conversation. Would you find a conversation like this in a history book? No. And even if you did, it would be a conversation between a king and his minister or between an ambassador or somebody important in some public setting. Where there are scribes and historians that are writing things, how this conversation is happening inside of a cave. How well a lessees and how well Allah hears you appreciate the perspective on this. Now what am I saying here? It's remarkable, really. The other place that this is mentioned is also incredible. It's incredible. Allah says, Well, you see, hear and obey him. If you could only see the time when criminals are going to be holding their heads down before their master and humility meaning the day of judgment. And people are embarrassed and humiliated and they can't even lift their head before Allah. And they turn to a line they say are a bona ab Sarna. What's going on now? Yeah, I love we've seen enough. Okay, Okay, I believe. Now I see it. I see it. Teresa, tell Jackie Milliman your, uh, hellfire is brought forward for the for whoever to see. Now these people are for and they don't want to see it, by the way, their heads are held back. Look at it. Look at it. Look at it and they say, Okay, okay, we see. We see. We see. Okay, I'm ready to listen now. So he says I see. And therefore I am ready to listen. But the entire point of the message of Islam for all of the profits was the profits are asking for you to listen for you to listen. And the people said no. We don't want to listen. We want to see Mhm. That's that. Wasn't that the problem? Every proper set. Please listen to me. Please listen to me. The believers will listen to the prophet sets now. Wattana

Indiana Senator Kennedy And we heard the call of a color calling to Iman. The prophets are saying please listen to what I'm saying, you know? No, no, no. We don't want to listen. We don't want to listen. If you really want to impress us, don't impress us with your words. How about you show us an angel? Let's see it. So an angel talks to you? I don't see an angel. Can you demonstrate this angel for me, please? Oh, so you get a book? Let's see the pages. Let me see the pages floating down from the sky. I'll believe you. Oh, you want to talk about Allah? Let's see him. You're talking about some punishment that's going to come. Fire is gonna rain from the sky. There's gonna be an earthquake. There's gonna be a flood. Uh, yeah, I've heard that enough. Let's see it. We'll start to Kabila job. In other words, the entire problem of the disbeliever was I am not interested in hearing I am only interested in seeing on Judgment Day exactly as per his request. What does the law make him do? See? And he says, Okay, okay, I see. I'm ready to listen. That's why that's mentioned. Meaning in Dona It's about listening. And in our era, it's about seeing and Dona you listen and come to your faith in this world. You come to you listen and you can reach faith and in the afterlife it as you see. And then nobody just believes in the afterlife. Everybody's a believer because they've seen now. Okay, now I'm gonna move along cha la again. I'm going to be selective today in what I think are the most powerful examples that I can illustrate in short amounts of time. This one is pretty awesome. I want to talk to all the other community hemlock. I'm gonna first ask you to understand the difference between the following two sentences. I eat because of hunger. I eat out of fear of hunger.

Is there a difference Between these two m? two people are at a restaurant. They're about to chew into a burger. You ask one of them. Why are you eating? He says, because I'm hungry. You asked the second guy. Why are you eating? Cause I'm afraid of being hungry. Are they eating for the same reason? No. What's the difference? The one who's hungry is actually already experiencing hunger. The one who says I am afraid of hunger. Is he actually experiencing hunger? No, he's actually fully still eating. You understand? Fear is associated, not with what is happening to you Right now. Fear is associated with what is going to happen to you. You're not afraid of what already happened or what is happening. You're actually afraid of what is going to happen. People get afraid of a loud sound, not because they are hurt right now, but it might hurt them. People are afraid of the news of a storm or a tornado or an earthquake coming or something. Not because of what has already happened, but what is going to happen, You understand. But when you say that I am doing something because of something because then the reason already exists and the reason already exists. Okay, now go to the eye out la la, la lula dot com Do not kill your Children. Allah says, Do not kill your Children. He says this twice. He says, This is totally true and totally non, he says. Well attacked. Lola dot com Do not kill your Children. The Children here are very relieved. Do not kill your Children. You can use this. By the way, Children, When you do really poor on your exams in school and you come home with a terrible report card, you can say Don't recite the rest of the I just say that part and run. Okay, so So what? Are you allowed to come? Do not kill your Children. Then it says minimum lock. I will translate that as roughly as because of bankruptcy. Do not kill your Children because of bankruptcy and not in a Kumbaya home. We are, in fact, the ones who provide you, and we also provide them. So who's you and who's them? Can somebody explain that to me? Who's you? The parents? Very good. And who's them? The Children? Let's go over that really quickly again. Do not kill your Children because of bankruptcy. We're the ones who provide you, and we're the ones who provide them. Okay, look at the next time we'll talk to Lula da com Rosita in Latin. Do not kill your Children out of fear of bankruptcy. We're the ones who provide them. And you Last time, he said, we provide you and them. This time he says, we provide them. And you, how come the change in sequence you see in the first case, Allah did not say Don't kill them out of fear of bankruptcy, he said. Don't kill them because of bankruptcy. And when he says Don't kill them because of bankruptcy, that means the bankruptcy already exist. You're already poor. You already have nothing, and when you have nothing, then you are hungry. Your Children are additionally hungry, but primarily and first and foremost, you yourself are hungry, and so, unless says, I'll provide you and then because you are already what hungry when Allah says, Don't kill your Children because you're afraid of bankruptcy? Look, if somebody is afraid of bankruptcy, are they hungry yet, or are they afraid of being hungry. Which means they're not hungry right now. And they're thinking that if they start paying for the bills and the medical bills and the food and the diapers and the sorry Pampers and the nappies Nappies. We saw that at the airport nappy changing room or nappy room? Because, you know, we say nappy when you want to take a nap. That would be a really confusing situation at the airport. I'm gonna go to the nappy room. You'll find something. Mm, Uh huh. These people have no idea how to take a nap anyway. So But anyway, look, you've got all these expenses associated with the Children and you're thinking the moment you have a child, things are gonna become so expensive. You're not going to be able to afford anything anymore. You will go bankrupt unless says, Don't worry, you're not the one who has to pay for them. I'll pay for them. No, no home. We'll pay for them, we'll provide them. And by the way, I won't just provide for them. Will also take care of you. See that you and them and them and you is a profound lesson. It took me about 10 15 minutes to explain. But Allah did that just by switching the words. And what's even more remarkable is that these two ia belong to two different shuras, which means they were revealed in two very different occasions. And it's not like the prophets of Allah who seldom has a piece of paper in front of him that says the similar I over here, Let me just compare, okay? Because you them Okay, so this is the fear of So maybe you should beat them. You. Can we just move this? It happens One time he says it. That's it. It's given to him. It's the final version. That's just think about how impossible that is. Just think about how impossible that is. Look at this. This example actually blows my mind. It just absolutely blows my mind. Hm. Allahu Allah. Columbia him? You know, the famous I have to Could be him similar to him. Well, I'm sorry, Henry. Shower. Alice has that a love place to seal upon their hearts, and he placed a seal upon their hearing, and the idea goes on. But I'll just focus on these two things for now. A lot of place to seal upon their hearts and their hearing. Okay, hearts and hearing. But when you go to school to tell Josh to Guatemala, summary he what can be He placed a seal upon his hearing and his heart. He placed a seal upon his hearing and his heart, and I'm thinking, Wait. Bakara said that the heart was sealed first and the hearing was sealed. Second, Jaffe, a pseudo number 45, says the hearing was sealed first and the heart was sealed. Second, is there even a purpose for this kind of change? This is where the conscious human speech is impossible. As a matter of fact, conscious human literature and writing isn't even capable of this. Think about this subtle Bakara one of the first time out. Anybody know them by heart. And if that means what Valley Calcutta Bull arriba feet. That's the book in which there is absolutely no doubt whatsoever. Doubt is a problem of the heart. Hoda will mutate in. It is guidance. Guidance happens where the heart woman remember Lahiya de Kalb. Guidance happens in the heart attack. In it is guidance for who people who have taqwa or consciousness of a lot of the consciousness of a life where it's in the heart. Because Allah says in Adana, come in to Kwa l Club Taqwa is in the heart and Latina menu. Annabelle rib. They believe in the unseen. Where is Iman? Where is faith? Where does it rest? Inside the heart Plaza just says, Well, a kindle Aha! Baba and Iman was goofy. You become a man is inside the heart everything that is mentioned in the beginning of skeletal Bakara, from doubt to guidance to taqwa. To believe has to do with what? The common thing that ties all of those things together. The common element is the heart. Then all the switches over to the disbelievers in the Latina. So, uh, him and me on the disbelievers cover often is where the heart this belief is in the heart. Then a lot talks about the hypocrites who have a disease where which is why literally, he says, feed him marathon. In their hearts, there's a disease. In other words, the beginning of Surat al Bakara, over and over and over again, comes back to the matter of the heart. So it is perfectly appropriate and fitting that Alyssa is when punishment time comes for the worst kind of disbeliever, he says about him. Allah decided to seal his heart and then his hearing. But what happens in Salat Al, Jaffee A is baffling, baffling. I want you to understand in Saratoga Mafia, we're talking about iron number 23 I.A. 23, Which means there are 22 I got That are part of this conversation. You can say 22 statements have been made Before we get to the 23rd statement. Do you remember what I said? 15 sentences ago? Count them and tell me if you remember what I said 15 sentences ago. Do you remember? Do you think I remember? I don't even remember what I said 10 seconds ago. I have no idea. Last night at the dinner, they asked me to give a small talk. I have no idea what I said. I don't even know what I was saying. While I was saying it because I was in my head. I was sleeping. So now 15 ions ago. IA # eight. I am number eight. Allah says yes, Mara. Some You several most of California's Maha Allen. He listens to the riot of Allah. The miraculous signs of Allah, the revelations of Allah. He listens to them being recited onto him, and he turns away arrogantly as though he hadn't even heard them. What crime is mentioned the crime of a refusal to listen. Where is it mentioned? Eighth Fire, Eighth Fire. 15 Wyatt. Later. The Koran is accurate enough to recall that within this sentence, sealing the hearing should be the appropriate punishment for that kind of a person. Sealing the hearing should come first, And the heart should be mentioned. 2nd mid sentence. Guatemala, who had a summary. He woke up You. Do you think about that? But to remember what Allah said 15 sentences ago. I don't even remember Have to look it up. I have to look it up. But a lot as always, this perfect speech takes into consideration what came before. And what came after was beyond human capability. It is absolutely beyond human capability. You know, this solves a lot of problems for half odd of the Koran. Because her father of the Koran, I compared them to trains that sometimes go on the wrong track. You're leading the way and you get to an idea, and you go from, like, baccarat to an arm. Never seen that happen. Right? So you started a lifelong memory, like, Wait, there's a lot of elements which was not going to, uh, you know, and some people here when they're thinking. Okay. Okay. Okay.

Oh, what's going on here, huh? How confused. And sometimes the odds are very similar. You know, we have a joke back in the United States. There's lots of young kids that are memorizing Koran. And they have this. They get nervous. So they recite Allawi. They lead to a we very quickly. They have super speed sonic supersonic speeds of reciting the Koran. The only word you hear is the last one before. We're cool, because you know how when a car comes to a stop at a red light, kind of like so, like, a lot of, uh, we call them the because the only two words you hear are Yeah. Uh huh. Uh huh. Well, how will you remember which one is which? Well, this study actually helps you remember. This study helps you remember. Okay, so that's enough about sequencing, even listen juicy. Well, one more and two more. God, this is hard. Okay, let me try to more well written when they saw trade when they saw business. This is actually an idea. This is in the same section 62 11 on page 17 methodology. Jonatan when they saw a business or trade Olajuwon or entertainment In fact, Julia, they broke away from the group and went towards it. Ouattara Kucuk are human and they left you standing there. This is an idea about the beginnings of the ethics of the Friday prayer. The Juma There were some Sahaba who are sitting listening to the heart, but they don't know that it's part of the Salah. They're thinking Salah actually begins when Afghanis a lot happens. And you know, the economy there is tough, like the Arab economy of the time is very tough. So if you have a trade caravan or like uh, you know, you can call it a convention nowadays and it's coming into town. Those conventions, they stay forever. Temporarily, they stay temporarily and they're on the move. This is like a moving roadshow road caravan type of thing. So they see a caravan go by with a lot of business opportunity. A bizarre people are selling stuff right off of their camels, etcetera, etcetera. So they see this and they're like, Wait, they're not gonna They're gonna leave town. I really needed to buy something. So I think I can be back in time for Salat. So they're sitting in the middle of the Cuba. They see it and they run off and they go shopping and then try to come back and the idea comes down. When they saw business or they saw some entertainment, they broke away and ran towards it. And they left you standing there, right? This was teaching us not to leave. What? The hotel tomorrow. Right. So losses Kalmar, Angela. I mean a lot to the change of sequence happens within the idea itself. Allah says What? Tell them whatever Allah has is better than entertainment and better than business. Listen, listen, listen. The beginning of the Iowa's when they saw a business or entertainment when they saw business or entertainment by the end of the same I'll What's he saying when that whatever Allah has is better than entertainment and better than business? So there's a switch. Why was business first in the beginning. And why is business last at the end? What in the world is going on here? You see, a lot of work in this area is teaching us a very profound lesson. And the literature of the Koran is sensitive to this. There is a specific context, and there is a universal lesson. I'll say that again. There's a specific context, a specific story, and from it you get a universal lesson. This happens in the Koran all the time. So Allah will start with something specific, and then he will draw from it. A universal lesson. Middle House alarm from the specific to the universal. Okay, now, what is the specific story that the area is talking about in that specific story? What happened? A trade caravan came by. It was distracting the people who were sitting in the hood to some of them are obviously business people. They see a business deal. So they say, I better go make that business deal because I don't know if I'll get a chance to do it again. So they go for the purpose of business. Now, By the way, when you have a convention or a conference or a trade show or something like that. Most of the people there are a lot of people there are there because of business. They're going to make business deals and network and talk to other traders and partners. And, you know, that's why they go therefore, but a lot of people go to the same trade show. Why? Because it's gonna be fun. There's a technology expo you want to go. There's a car show you want to go. So a lot of people go there for business and a lot of people go there for what entertainment. Now the thing is, imagine there's a discussion. There's a business fair or something. It's out in the open in a park. A lot of people got together for business, but when you're walking by and you're a college student, which means you're useless, Uh, you're you're walking by and you see a large crowd standing by there and there's some balloons there and the trade fair there. What are you gonna do? Hey, it looks like fun. I should go check it out. In other words, you didn't go for business. You went for what you went for. Entertainment. The primary reason to be attracted to that sort of thing is business, but secondarily, some people get up because it's entertaining. But this is actually a phenomenon in social psychology. For instance, if there was something happening out there and it looked like, you know, it's colorful or balloons or something, one person got up because they sell balloons. They said, Hey, see balloons, check it out And those other people get up and go because they think it might be fun, you understand? So one person went for a real reason, like a business reason. A lot of people go just for fun, just to check it out, that sort of thing. Okay, that's what the story is about. But then but then and before I go to the Universal, this was the specific. I want you to understand the specific one. Last time. The primary reason for getting up was not entertainment. The primary reason for getting up was business. Secondarily, some people got curious and they went for the purposes of entertainment. That's the idea here. Okay, now what I was saying Calma and Allah Allah, let them know that whatever Allah has is better than entertainment and better than business. So he then Allah says what I have. What Allah has is better than entertainment. First, he didn't mention business. First, he attacked entertainment first, why he attacked entertainment first because in that particular story, the culprit was business. But the vast majority of the times for human beings. What will take them away from the remembrance of Allah? Will it be business, or will it be entertainment? It'll be entertainment. In other words, even the businessman will be struck by entertainment. Not everybody will be involved in business, but everybody will get pulled into entertainment. So less says, Listen, look out for the real culprit here. The real culprit is going to be entertainment. And by the way, business also. Sometimes your business can take you away from the real remembrance of a lot. So watch out for that too. So the transition happened to teach us the universal lesson.

Okay, Now I'm going to move along next section. I will not talk to you exhaustively about this section. I will only say one or two things about this section because for this section really to be appreciated, you have to be students of Arabic grammar in Guadalajara and I lay here on your own. So we're not gonna do that. But at least I'll give you some idea, okay? I'll try to make it as easy as I possibly can. Uh, because I was my Islam, my own Islam was developed and cultivated in the United States, and I was exposed to lots of different kinds of groups and scholars and, you know, ideologies and things like that and even a lot of anti Islamic literature. Even when I was going into college, even as I was studying the Arabic language back in the day, uh, in the 18 hundreds, I was, uh I used to get used to get, you know, uh, Geo Cities, Web pages. You don't even know what that is, uh, about, like, you know, contradictions in the Koran, or grammatical mistakes in the Koran and things like that. And evangelicals were writing against the Koran and talking about how there are so many mistakes and there are contradictions in it. And there were academics that we're writing. There was, I remember, still, in 1996 I think it was There's some Arabic students because Georgetown University has a PhD in Arabic program, right? And their students, the master students put together Azura. Dr Collins says, Bring the stool. I like it. So they put together as soon I was called So little Muslim. Uh, and they put it together and it looked like a page of the most tough. It had, like a nice calligraphy and the Othmani font and everything, and it was just a piece of trash. But they put it up on their Web page like, this is our class project. You know how you have a class project. Their class project was to put together a Sura, and they got viral back in the day like everybody was like Georgetown produced Azura. Unless they bring a pseudo like it. And they finally did it in the University of Georgetown, you know, and people are emailing it to each other like Oh my God, it's finally happened. It's all over now and then. The other interesting thing that happened was a lot of students. A lot of professors actually studied Arabic, not in the Arab world, but they actually studied Arabic at the Western American universities, British universities, et cetera, and then wrote criticisms of the Koran from a language perspective like the Koran has grammatical errors and mistakes. And they wrote thesis on this like PhD papers were written on this stuff, okay, out of the United States and and then these papers because, you know, who reads PhD papers? I don't think you do in your spare time. So, like, people don't read this stuff. But because, you know, post 9 11, there was a new industry. It's a very lucrative, very money making industry. The Attack Islam industry, right. It actually makes a lot of money without a joke. It makes a lot of money. It's serious money. Like if you want to attack a psalm and make a write a book on it, then you can become a millionaire very quickly in America very, very quickly. It's died down now, but back in the day it was It's not. They don't hate Islam, Let me tell you, they don't hate Islam. They just love money. It's You need to understand what's really going on. Okay, they just really, really love money. So they started taking those PhD papers, and they started pulling things out of there and writing books on how the Koran has mistakes. And then this YouTube video started coming out about these mistakes in the Koran. And, you know, Facebook pages started getting created and blog started getting created, an email chain started getting created. And this stuff is like all over now, right? So it's like, Oh, you you find a YouTube video. You know, if you watch this YouTube video will no longer be Muslim. You have, like, millions of hits on these videos because some stupid teenager sitting somewhere in Pakistan will not Pakistan, because YouTube is banned. But, you know, like, Oh, yeah, I can watch. And I'll still be Muslim watch. Uh huh. And he watches it. And then he goes, I don't know about this stuff. Why? Because first of all, we're ignorant as a normative, unfortunately, ourselves so people can take easy advantage of our ignorance. We're easy to take advantage of because of our ignorance. Right. But anyway, so I read some of these papers on the mistakes or the alleged mistakes in the Koran. And when I as I was studying Koranic Arabic, I just found it. Some of the best comedy I have ever read in my life. That was funny funny material because what happens? Let me tell you where this comes from. In the beginning of my program yesterday, I told you, there are three kinds of Arabic. Do you remember? What were they spoken? Formal and old Arabic? Koran is in old Arabic, which is far more refined, far more technical, far more advanced than which one formal. These university professors actually don't study classical Arabic. They only study formal Arabic, and they feel very confident that they actually know Old Arabic. Then they decide that they're going to learn the 10 rules of Grammar that they know from formal Arabic and try to analyze the Koran that is made up of over 200 rules of grammar, maybe even thousands of rules of grammar. And they think, whatever 10 rules they learned they couldn't find that applied in the IA must be a mistake. So their PhD paper is not a proof that the Koran has mistakes. The PhD paper is approved that they don't know Arabic like That's what it proves, you understand. So now these I want to show you just one of them. And what's what's fun to me is the I. R that they picked to allege that there's a mistake in them are, interestingly enough, there's some of the most beautiful riot of docker and linguistically, and the thing that they're calling a mistake is actually one of the most wonderful examples of language in the Koran. Thank you for bringing my attention to the crown, so I don't want to explain what they say, because that's a grammar discussion. But I want to explain to you some of the nuances of the Koran and how translation is actually a very sensitive thing. Unfortunately, it is not. Nowadays, we don't translate in a sensitive way. And don't ask me when I'm going to write a translation. I'm not I'm not. I'm I'm more about videos. I'm into you too. Okay? Because you know when when I speak, my problem is three of you will read. 3000 of you will listen, right? I want the Koran to spread. If I all of the work that I've done this far. If I just wrote it, I didn't speak a word. Let me one of you here. I've read all your books. Sounds like at least someone did Well, actually, you paid me to read them. It's like, Okay, you understand? We're not readers anymore. We're YouTubers. We have to go. We have to take the message of the Koran to whatever medium the people are. And is it easy to take videos and turn them into writing? By the way, later on, yes. But is it easy to take books and turn them into videos? That's hard. So why not just go with what is easy right now and what can be turned later on anyway? Right? That's that's my opinion, anyway. So, anyway, I want to show you something about this place, Alberta, and to allow, um, well, the the Orientalist says The critic says it shouldn't have been like Alberta. It should have been laced. Albert Roux, Even though Tara is there, I want to take this time to defend and illustrate what is the point of lace? Alberta Les Silvera and to all a good you have come, you see, it's supposed to be translated. If I was to try to attempt. It's not a perfect translation, but what I think is closer to the meaning. Being good. This is being good is the word bit. Being good isn't that you turn your face is to the east and west alone. Or isn't only that you turn your faces. What's your problem, Bill Gates? Okay, He's almost alone.

Being good isn't only that you turn your faces to the east and west, East and west. I added a word here. That's Lord alone. The word alone is generated in the meaning because the word isn't al Burro. It is Albert because of that. And I won't get into the source code and the programming code behind it. The bottom line is it's just you're supposed to get it, only there. Now, let me ask you a question. This is where it gets easier if I hold this bottle of water and I say this is not a bottle of water.

That sounds weird. But if I say this is not the only bottle of water, does it make a difference when I add only this isn't about a bottle of water. Sounds wrong. And I negate the fact I'm kind of denying the fact that this is a bottle of water. But when I say this is not the only bottle of water, what I'm actually saying is this in fact is a bottle of water and there are other bottles of water to. Isn't that what I'm saying? But all of that came out of what? One word only now the English translations of the Koran. Many of them say righteousness is not that you turn your faces to the east and the West. Have you heard this before? Righteousness, Isn't that you turn your faces to the east and the West. And I'm saying righteousness isn't only that you turn your faces to the east and the West. Does it make a difference? Oh, it makes a huge difference. Because when you say righteousness isn't to turn your face in one direction or the other, Then you are actually saying the direction in which you pray doesn't even matter because it has nothing to do with righteousness. The problem with that is the entire previous discussion. All of the ions before multiple times. What would you have come to? Who would you have come to who? Wherever you may be? Turn your faces in the direction of the Kaaba. Turn your direction towards the Qibla. Turn directions. Turn to the direction of the Qibla. It doesn't matter. where you are over and over and over again. The entire discussion before this idea is actually, when the Qibla changed from Jerusalem to Mecca mhm and was that important, wouldn't it kind of be strange to talk about its importance for so long and then at the end of it, say, By the way, that's not really important. Actually, the what is being said here remarkably is it is not the the only thing that's important Now my question to you is when I say this is not the only thing that makes you good, does it create a question? Could you Can someone come up with the question? What question is it creating when I say, you know, turning your faces east and West isn't the only good Fantastic. What else is there? I didn't teach you that question. You came up with it yourself. The Koran constructs its language in a way that makes you ask the question. And the question is, Well, what else is there to be in? Good. If this isn't the only thing, could you give me a full definition of being good and remarkably in the Koran? I was asking that question before the rest of the IA was even read. Allah says, however righteousness altogether. Here's what it means, like in Alberta. Mana, Mana Bila he will be the idea goes on. In other words, it says, Let me now define goodness itself comprehensively. But before a lot turn to the subject of goodness, he structured the first part of the idea in a way that forced me to ask the question, What else is there? Could you please give me a full definition? And it says, though Allah created that question in my heart and then answered it in the idea some Panama. This area is a remarkable example of teaching methodology in the Koran. Allah is our teacher. You are welcome. Malala teaches you. He doesn't just teach us so we can learn. He also teaches us how to teach A good teacher will create a lesson that will make students want to ask the question that he wants to answer later on anyway. And so, by the time he starts answering that question, students like, Hey, I was wondering about that and they think that this just happened by chance. But the teacher was actually designing the entire discussion and kind of taking you on a mental path where that question could get answered. The other beautiful thing here is about the flow of the Koran. I'll make a quick comment about the flow of the Koran. The idea most of it is about. What does it mean to be good? What was the discussion before I just mentioned it? Do you remember what the discussion was before the change of the que Bella? These are two different subjects. One subject is the change of the Qibla. The second subject is what does it mean to be good? These are two distinct subjects, and I want to make sure I want to teach both of these lessons. But I want to make sure that students don't have a sudden break between one lesson and the other lesson. I want there to be continuity between both of these lessons. So here's what Allah does, he says. I've been talking to you about the change change of Qibla and which way you should pray. By the way, prayer in that particular direction isn't all there is. And by doing so, he made a transition from the discussion about prayer into the discussion about what it means to be good. It's a natural, like a stream flowing into a river and a river flowing into an ocean. That's how the conversations flow in the Koran. It's incredible. And they say All good rise. A mistake. Cut, stupid.

There's another thing here. I'll tell you later. Okay? I'll tell you now. Well, uh, well, I gotta, you know, common salata. Jessica. This person was describing the things that makes him good. And he's listing a bunch of things. And among them, he says we'll move him either. I had too much fun. Is this word over here? Let me make it big for you so you can see it. It's over there. Let me see if I can see it. Can you see it yet? You see it, You see it? Okay. Elmo. Fiona Al Muna. Raha do. But then after that, it says, was Sabrina philosophy with us. That's the word, Sabrina. Let's see if you can see it. You see it? See it? Okay, good. So there's the word Muna. And there's the word. What? Sabrina the Orientalist, the linguist who doesn't really know linguistic, says, Hey, it said Muna which means it should have, said Sabrina. It says more Fiona. So it should have said, What word? Sabrina? Because if it said move Tina, then the word after should have been Sabrina. But if it's more fun and then the word after should be so there's a mistake in the Koran because it said Muna. And then it said Sabrina, because according to the grammar I learned in kindergarten called the Georgetown University, you can't have that mhm. And the problem with that is they learn what this is. You know, the change of Arab and the change of declination is they learn two ways. You can do it three ways you can do it. The word the notes of the China can be done for one of 16 reasons. In Arabic Grammar, they learn two of them, Like I know everything there is stupid. 14 more to go. But I want to illustrate to you why this is so cool. Why did it change it anyway? When it's changed, it's changed for a really special reason. So I'll give you a silly example to help you remember. I am about to go groceries. I'm gonna go do the shopping for the family. I'm going to go get, you know, the milk and the eggs and the bread and the vegetables and all of that. Right? So my wife gives me a list, She gives me a list. Uh, does your wife give you a list ever? No, of course not. Um, I I'll tell you about marriage later. I'm very happily married because she told me I am yes. Anyway. Anyway, so she So she gives me a list. Get the diaper. No, no, no. She says get the milk, get the bread, get the eggs, get carrots, got cucumbers, make sure you get cereal. And I'm gonna say this in a silly way. So you understand my point? She says, get the milk una get the bread. Gonna get the get the carrot suna. Okay, Then you get to Syria, Luna, And make sure you get the diaper. Xena. Everything was you know, Nana, What got the arena peppers? Because if I come without diapers, I met will sleep outside. You understand? There's a list of things that are important. Everything was important. Everything's good. You know the thing that if you if you don't do that one or you're done and above and beyond everything else. Last but not least, forget, not least, most important of all, the diapers, Allah says There's a lot of things involved in being good with the Kindle, the Roman Army. Annabella William Well, well. To begin

with,

we'll move a list of things that can make you good and above and beyond everything else. What is it, Marina? Marina, your goodness is directly tied to some of the the climax of it all. You don't have suburb. Watch it. Everything else before it means nothing. If you don't have somebody, it's as though he's saying that. And why is that? Why is that important? Some of the words somebody actually has to do with consistency, among other things. Patients. Perseverance, consistency, constancy. When you stay constant with something, the thing is, if Allah talked about being good has to do with prayer. What good is prayer if you're not constant with it? A lot talks about giving charity. What good is charity if you only give it one time and you're not constant with it? Although talks about fulfilling promises, what good is fulfilling promises? Because if you only fulfilled at one time in your life. All of the things that Allah mentioned have to do with being good can only be good if you are regular with them to be regular with something you have to have. What quality suburbs. So he says, above and beyond everything else. Make sure you have something and the way he taught me And you that lesson is instead of saying well, severe Luna which would just make it one more item on the list. He said, This is the item on the list. What, Sabrina and what side? You're right. It says that everything else depends on it. This is the genius of the Koran. What they call grammatical mistakes. So sad. What's even sadder is we don't know. You know, that's even sadder. That's the part that really makes me sad. Didn't I tell you? You have to remind me about something. God, I have to remind you to remind me. Yeah, Yeah. Terrible. I'm not going to give you a break yet. I will tell you about a little Chrissy first. Don't give you a break. So I think she really excites me. It's awesomeness. I was doing, you know when I when I did the lecture here and I could see I wasn't there in my podcast series yet. And when I got back, I was doing the Ayatollah Angelou and all of that we got to talk or see in our series. I do about 30 minutes, 20 to 30 minutes of a lecture on Bakara every week at our mash it and we got to attend Corsi. I've been on ice Corsi for 10 weeks. Just every every week is just one piece of the aisle because it's like, amazing. So I want to just show you one part of it, which is make that a little smaller, so you can

always is that better? You still see it? It doesn't go any smaller, You see Font size two, maybe one one's good. Okay. Can you see that? Read it for me. Yeah. Was he ill? Corsi? Yoo hoo! Osama! Lottie! Well, all right. All right, all right. His throne, his Corsi expends extends to encompass is you can say or holds. I like the word holds his throne holds or held. Actually, I should correct myself. His throne held the skies in the earth. I'll write that down for you. His throne held the skies and the earth. Strange language This is thrown held, the skies and the earth. What's remarkable about little goosey is everything else is in the present tense. Mandela de Shafia Mandela de What do you do? Okay, then what? I know every verb in idle Cassie's present tense. The only verb that hits you immediately in the past tense is what his throne, not his. His throne holds the skies and the earth his throne held. This guy's in the earth, so I want to talk to you a little bit about this past tense. It's awesome. This home holds 3000. This hall held 3000. Let's talk about the difference. I walk into this hall a month before this program. I didn't hypothetically speaking. I walk into this hall a month before this program. It's completely empty. The organizer, the manager of the building, shows me. The Holland says. By the way, this hall, what does he say? Holds 3000. Is it holding 3000, as at the time he's talking to me? No, it simply has the capability of holding 3000, which means that actually may never have happened. Maybe the building just opened. Nobody's ever used it yet. But it's still accurate to say that the hall holds 3000. The first problem with saying Allah's throne holds the skies in the earth. There would be a statement. It has the potential of holding the skies in the earth. We're not sure if it does yet or not. That would be a problem. But when the organizer walks me into the building and says this hall held 3000, did it actually happen? Cli use the tents that would illustrate that. That's a matter of fact, not just a matter of potential. You understand that difference? It's huge to switch was critical. If you don't say that, there's a problem, but that's not the only issue when you say I'm going back again. So the first point point was, if you use the present tense, it's potentially holds. But if you say hell, that means it actually happened. It's a matter of fact that's the first difference. Here is the second difference When I say this hall holds 3000, it is the same as saying the maximum capacity of this hall is 3000 when he says this whole whole state, I say, Hey, can this hold hold 4000? He says. No, no, no. This whole holds 3000. In other words, when you use the present tense for holes, then you are also discussing maximum capacity. But when you say this hall held 3000, Is it necessarily saying that the maximum capacity of this hall is 3000? No, the fact is, last program we had, it was 3000. The next one was 5000. Next one was 10,000. Whatever. In other words, when you use the past tense, you have not exhausted the maximum capacity you understand. It is as though all I use the past tends to say that even though the entire skies and the earth are held within the Corsi, it still doesn't exhaust its maximum capacity. Which is to say, some of you may have a silly imagination. You're thinking disguising the earth are stuffed underneath the throne like a balloon stuck under a chair, and it's about to pop out. It's like coming out at the seams. No, no, no. It's very, very small compared to the throne. So the profits of the lot where he was selling would describe how much bigger is the courtesy than this guy is in the earth. He would give us a comparison, and here's the visual of that comparison. I won't give you the wording of the head is just a paraphrasing you are. You are flying over a desert in a helicopter. You're flying over a desert. You take a coin or no, you take a ring, you throw it in the desert. The size of the ring, compared to the size of the desert, is the size of the skies in the earth combined compared to the size of the throne. No, wait, let's talk about the skies for a second. The known universe. The constantly expanding known universe that goes billions of light years out into space, is still considered the first sky that's considered the first sky. So long as there are stars in the universe, it is considered Osama Adonia Adonia. We decorated the lowest sky with stars. Mhm, so the known universe is still which sky, the first guy and seven skies fit under the cozy and compared to the cozy, the seven skies are the size of a ring compared to a desert. Then the prophet says Alyssa to Salam. He says that this throne above it is the charge above the throne is that I'll show you a lot now that our shambala, if you compare to the Corsi, guess what a ring thrown in the desert, a ring thrown in the desert. Which means this universe is nothing compared to the Corsi. And it is as though the Corsi is nothing compared to that house. But here's what I want to tell you. Unless has this Rahmati What's he at? My love and care held all things, all things. When the letters describing his Rama, he does not say it holds the skies in the earth. The Corsi holds the skies in the earth. The arch holds the Corsi and the Rama holds what everything is the cozy. A creation of Allah is the actual creation of Allah. Is it part of goulash? Huh? People who doubt the size and the magnitude of the love and care of Allah should just read Ramadi was the articulation. It's incredible how low would illustrate and visualize how much he loves and how much he cares. You and your little complaint against the law about how he doesn't care about me. And he doesn't really know why. Problems and you know, why does he forgotten about me? You don't realize how big how huge, how immeasurable drama of Allah is. Maybe you just haven't realized. Anyway. That was a side note.
