اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم
وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى رَسُولِ اللهِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ اَجْمَعِينَ
ثُمَّ اَمَّا بَعْدُ

Why does Allah use "We" in the Qur'an?  I will address this because it has to do with the literary analysis of the Qur'an. I'll give you some good notes on that bi-iznillah. Hopefully that will help you understand an overview of the subject. Let's answer this step by step, let's take a methodical approach to answering this question. The first thing is the pronouns I We You and He. Meaning in the Qur'an Allah uses "I" for Himself, "We" for Himself, "You" for Himself. and He for Himself. For example, when We make Du"a to Allah We use what word? You. أَنتَ مَوْلَىٰنَا فَٱنصُرْنَا عَلَى ٱلْقَوْمِ ٱلْكَٰفِرِينَ (أَنتَ) You. Okay? Allah says I for Himself, like
وَأَنَا التَّوَّابُ الرَّحِيمُ I am the one who accepts Tawbah. We use the word Who or He as in قُلْ هُوَ اللَّهُ أَحَدٌ We use the word "We" as in إِنَّا نَحْنُ نَزَّلْنَا الذِّكْرَ We are the ones Who sent down the remembrance. So all four of these pronouns are used. Now if you know at least third grade level english, you know that "I" and "we" are first person, "you" is second person and "he" is third person. Yes. You also know if you know the basics that "I" is singular, "we" is plural, "you" is singular and "he" is also singular. Now, what were they- what we're saying then is that in the first person you find singular and plural. Isn't that true? You find singular and plural? But in the second person you only find singular. And in the third person, you also only find singular. This is important to note because if the plural was literally plural, then you would find the plural in the first person. You would find the plural in the second person. And you would also find the plural in the third person. In other words, you would also find instead of "you", you would find "you all" and instead of "he" (هو), you would also find "they" (هم). But you don't. You don't consistently find the plural in all the persons. You only find it in first person and even within first person you find both singular and plural. Is that clear to everybody? Okay. So now what we're trying to say then is that the use of "We" in the Qur'an for Allah is not consistent. Therefore it is not literal. it is not consistent because if it was consistent it would have been "I" and "we" and "you" and "you all" and "he" and "they". All of that would have been there. None of that is there. Okay then the second issue, if you think of the third-- we can take "you" out of the picture here. We can take "you" out of the picture. Why can we take "you" out of the picture? Because "you" is only used when there's a Du'a. When we are talking to Allah, we are saying You forgive us or You help us or You something. We're talking to Him. But really when Allah is speaking on His own behalf then you find these three "I" and "We" and "He". Those are the three you find when Allah speaks on His own behalf. Now, speaking of these three, what is the difference between first person and third person? All of you know, first person is when you speak on your own behalf. Third person is when you're speaking about someone else. But rhetorically speaking in the literary sense, there's another difference. The "I" and the "We" is close and the "he" is far away. The "he" is far away. Third person is someone who is away from you. This raises an issue in the Qur'an, a literary observation that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala in the Qur'an sometimes uses the word "He" for Himself, even though He's the One speaking. He's the One-- when you're speaking about yourself, do you use "he"? Unless you're a politician named Bob Dole from the 90's. Bob Dole is not a liar. He's a reliable man. You're right there dude. Okay, so sometimes people use he for themselves. That's kind of crazy. But normally when people speak, what do they use for themselves? "I". They use "I" for themselves. So it raises a strange question; if Allah's the speaker in the Qur'an how come He's using the word He anyway? How come He's even using the word "Allah"? This is the difference between a speaker and a teacher. The Qur'an was not-- is not an autobiography of God. It is not Allah speaking for His own sake. It is actually Allah speaking for our sake. In other words Allah has given us a curriculum. Now, let me tell you the practical benefits of that. Practically speaking like Allah does not say, 'I am forgiving.' He says 'Allah is forgiving.' Right? So the words of Allah
وَاللَّهُ غَفُورٌ رَّحِيمٌ And I'll just say it in simple
english. Allah is extremely forgiving. Let's just say. As opposed to saying 'I am extremely forgiving.' Now let me give you a scenario. You're talking to your friend, you're having a conversation with your friend and your friend is losing hope. They think that Allah will punish them and you want to give them hope. And you want to give them hope from Allah's word Itself. So you put your arm around their shoulder and you remind them what Allah says, when Allah says
وَاللَّهُ غَفُورٌ
Allah is forgiving. It would be really awkward if Allah revealed in the Qur'an, 'I am extremely forgiving' and you put your arm around your friend's shoulder and say, 'Hey listen relax, (انا غفور رحيم).' 'I am extremely forgiving.' You understand? In other words Allah revealed the Qur'an in a way that makes it easy for me to use it to remind
myself and remind others. And there's another meaning of
وَلَقَدْ يَسَّرْنَا ٱلْقُرْءَانَ لِلذِّكْرِ He facilitated the language in a way that when you remind someone else, they can actually get what you're saying. The language is structured in that way. But even then I want you to note some things. The word "he", the word "he" illustrate-- is formal. Is formal. It can even be distant.

In other words, sometimes Allah is talking to someone directly. And He's upset with them. And immediately He switches over and instead
of talking to them, He says
واللهُ 'And Allah is' and so on and so forth. He distanced Himself. That can happen. It's called the concept of (التبعيد). التبعيد-- distancing oneself. Okay. The word "We"- or let's use "We" at the end- "I" is used in intense contexts. Extreme love. Or extreme anger. When you find the word "I" in the Qur'an, then it can only be extremes. It is not a normal thing, it's just not. And it's powerful because you know, kings of old times, they used to speak of themselves in the plural 'We have spoken', 'We have declared' 'This is our land', etcetera, etcetera. But when the king got really angry, he said, 'You dare speak to me like that?' He doesn't say 'You dare speak to us', he says, 'You dare speak to me.' 'Who do you think I am?' Not "We are". When he gets
extremely angry, he uses I. He likes somebody he goes, 'I like you.' It's not, 'We like you'. He just says, 'I like you' because it becomes informal. It becomes intimate. So the the use of "I" in the Qur'an is either extreme love or extreme anger. I'll give you one example of each. So you have some idea what I'm talking about. Forgiveness is awesome. But even greater than forgiveness is the act of Tawbah from Allah. Tawbah of the human being and Tawbah of Allah. Tawbah of the human being means the human being turned back to Allah. Tawbah of Allah is that Allah turned back to the human being. Which is why the word (التواب) is a name of Allah. And (التواب) is also used for human beings. إِنَّ اللَّهَ يُحِبُّ التَّوَّابِينَ Because in the sense of Allah, Allah is turning back to the human being and the sense of the human being, he's turning back to Allah. But I want to share something about the word Tawbah with you. Imagine a human being that has done a lot of bad things, they've done a lot of lying, a lot of cheating, a lot of really bad, horrible, horrible things. They haven't prayed, they haven't done any good thing in their life, etcetera. And eventually they decide one day something happens in their heart and they decide that they're going to do Tawbah, they're going to turn back to Allah and they're going to start fresh. But the problem is even though this guy wants to get a new start, he's got a pretty big criminal record, he's got a mountain size of evil deeds. Allah offers people who make Tawbah فَأُولَئِكَ يُبَدِّلُ اللَّهُ سَيِّئَاتِهِمْ حَسَنَاتٍ People who make Tawbah to Allah, those people Allah will replace their mountain of evil deeds convert it into a mountain of good deeds. Now, this is different from forgiveness. Because when you talk about forgiveness, that means 'I will erase your bad deeds.' That is, 'I will erase your bad deeds.' But when you talk about Tawbah then Allah is saying, I won't just erase your bad deeds I will convert your bad deeds into what? Good deeds. Those bad deeds were going to be the reason for you to burn in hell. Now that you have made Tawbah those same bad deeds have actually been converted into something that counts in your favor simply because you made Tawbah. This is far greater than the act of forgiveness. This is actually- you're being rewarded And your crimes that were held against you- imagine you have debt. Just imagine this scenario, you have debt. You owe someone 20,000 ringets. And all of a sudden you check your bank account and instead of minus-20,000 it says what? Not even zero. Even if it's a zero, you should be really happy. It doesn't say zero, it says you just made 20,000. That's crazy. So, that unusual act of Allah's love, you will find (انا) associated with Tawbah. أَنَا التَّوَّابُ الرَّحِيمُ 'I am extremely forgiving, extremely accepting of repentance.' When I turned back to you, I really turned back to you. That's the idea. That is an example of extreme love. What about an example of extreme what? Anger. 'Isa 'alaihissalam, Jesus, is the last messenger sent to the Israelites. The Israelites have a long history of prophets. Yes or no? And these prophets were given many, many, many miracles. Starting with Moses, starting with Musa 'alaihissalam, they were given the staff, they were given the water parting, they were given the clouds following them. Then they were given, you know, 'Uzair 'alaihissalam who died for 100 years and was brought back to life. They were given Sulaiman 'alaihissalam and Dawud 'alaihissalam. They were given prophet after prophet after prophet. Miracle after miracle after miracle. They have an exhaustive history of remarkable gifts from Allah. The final prophet that comes to them. The final messenger that comes to them is Jesus, is 'Isa 'alaihissalam. And he has very few followers. They're called the Hawariyun (حواريون). And they're-- he's sitting with his Hawariyun (حواريون). And these followers of his they asked him, 'Hey, could you make Du'a to Allah?' 'He could send us a meal. A full table's worth meal from the sky.' It's called the last supper. Right? Could you send us a meal from the sky?

'Isa 'alaihissalam hears these words and he says, اتَّقُوا اللَّهَ 'What is wrong with you people? Why are you asking me for this?' They say, 'Because if we see this miracle, it will confirm our faith.' Because the believer sometimes wants to see a miracle and they've seen previous ones, but they just want to see this one and obviously they want to see this one to settle their hearts because they're about to be killed by the romans or there's an extreme situation. So they're they're looking for something to ease their hearts. So they asked for it, fine. 'Isa 'alaihissalam you know, asks Allah for this table spread, for this ma'idah (مائدة) from the sky. And Allah responds. And Allah says, 'I will send it to you.' Fine. I will give it to you. But if anyone of you disbelieves after this one. Now Allah is talking to the last messenger of the Israelites Who after all the disbelief and all the hypocrisy are still asking for one last miracle. Allah says, if if anybody dares to disbelieve after this one, فَإِنِّىٓ أُعَذِّبُهُۥ عَذَابًا لَّآ أُعَذِّبُهُۥٓ أَحَدًا مِّنَ ٱلْعَٰلَمِينَ 'Then no doubt about it I, I am going to torture him with a torture that I have never tortured anyone of any nation ever.' There's a lot of "I" in that Ayah. And it's not a normal Ayah. It's an Ayah expressing Allah's extreme what? Anger. So the "I" is used for extreme love or extreme anger. You with me so far? Now we come to the money question. When is "We" used? "We" is used when Allah describes something that is associated with Allah's kingdom. Because kings used to use "We". That's the first usage of "We". Which is why you will find unusually in the Qur'an overwhelmingly when water is mentioned, "We" is mentioned. It will be-- the rest of the Ayah will be "He", "He", "He", "He", "He" and then water comes up and it becomes "We". 'And We gave water' and 'We grew the earth.' So the Kingdom of Allah and water and things that are associated with water. You will find "We" overwhelmingly. This is also interesting because the throne of Allah, His 'Arsh is on what? Water. The water itself is associated with the Kingdom of Allah 'azzawajal. It's a manifestation of His Kingdom. And water is a means by which not only is water pure it is also a purifier. Right? And in the physical sense it's pure and it's a physical purifier. And in the spiritual sense it cleanses us so we can pray. You make Wudu using water. Okay. So with water you find manifestation of Allah's kingdom. When Allah gives unusual gifts. So kings give-- and by the way, including within kingdom there's water, there's gifts, there's life. You know, major things Allah will use "We". Allah will use "We". So "He" is for formality, "We" is for big gifts, of grand gifts of Allah, grand accomplishments. But that's still, you know, it leaves something to be wondered. What I find really most amazing about the use of "We" in the Qur'an is that Allah did not leave us in confusion. Every single time Allah uses "We" for Himself in the Qur'an it is immediately followed by use of the word-- of the singular for Allah. Something immediately follows up just to let you know, by the way, don't be confused. He's still one. The "We" is just being used for grandeur. I'll give you an easy example of that. إِنَّا أَعْطَيْنَاكَ الْكَوْثَرَ Everybody knows that one. We gave you Kauthar. So which word is being used? "We". What's the next Ayah? فَصَلِّ لِرَبِّكَ وَانْحَرْ
not (فصل لنا وانحر) See We gave you Kauthar so pray to us. That's the expectation. We gave you Kauthar pray to us and sacrifice. No, He says We gave you Kauthar, pray to your Master. How many masters? One Master and sacrifice. Immediately after "We" the word Rabb, which is singular. Over and over again in the Qur'an. There will be a "We" immediately followed by something specifically singular for Allah. Specifically singular for Allah. إِنَّا أَنزَلْنَاهُ فِي لَيْلَةِ الْقَدْرِ We sent it down in the night of power. Then the conversations about Laylatul Qadr. لَيْلَةُ الْقَدْرِ خَيْرٌ مِّنْ أَلْفِ شَهْرٍ تَنَزَّلُ الْمَلائِكَةُ وَالرُّوحُ فِيهَا (بِإِذْنِنا)? (بِإِذْنِ)? ( رَبِّ) Rabb-singular. بهِم مِّن كُلِّ أَمْرٍ Immediately Rabb again. In other words Allah does not let us remain in the plural "We" ever. He switches over to the singular every time. I asked Jewish scholar one time, a rabbi that I met, does God use "We" for Himself in the Torah, in the Hebrew Torah that you guys have? He goes, 'Yeah.' 'Of course all the time.' I was like, 'Really? So do you think that God is many?' He goes, 'No, that's stupid.' 'He's one.' '"We" is used because He's majestic. He's a king.' I was like, 'Okay, so you guys have always been clear.' They have been clear all along. It's not like they'e confused about it. And then in the middle came the Christians who somehow got confused about this and then it comes to us. You know, finally. But we shouldn't be confused about this matter. Is that-- is that clear to everybody? This was a side note. I want to get to the examples I really want to get to.

Oh this is. Oh man.

I wrote some important things down. I want to make sure I don't miss them.

Okay.

People an example is about to be given. Please listen to it carefully. Who listened to the example carefully in إِنَّ ٱلَّذِينَ تَدْعُونَ مِن دُونِ ٱللَّهِ لَن يَخْلُقُواْ ذُبَابًا No doubt about it. Those who you call other than Allah will not be able to create a single fly. Those who you are trying to call other than Allah will not be able to create a single fly. Now (إِنَّ ٱلَّذِينَ تَدْعُونَ مِن دُونِ ٱللَّهِ) does not say (إِنَّ ٱلَّذِينَ تَدْعُونَهم مِن دُونِ ٱللَّهِ) This is called the concept of 'Ai'd. No technical explanations are given here. All I will tell you is there are two kinds of things that people call other than Allah. people call false gods, idols, mythical gods etcetera etcetera. Angels you can even consider. The other category is people call kings. Besides Allah. Like who? Give us an example of a king being called besides Allah. Fir'own. Right? Fir'own is an example of that.
So there-- I want you to think of two entities. I want you to think of a giant idol that's being worshiped and I want you to think of those who you call other than Allah. They cannot create a single fly. So who is incapable of creating a fly? Fir'own is incapable of creating a fly and the idol is incapable of creating a fly. وَلَوِ ٱجْتَمَعُواْ لَهُۥ
even if they all got together for that purpose. If they all, if all of your gods got
together for that purpose and Fir'own and all of his armies got together for that purpose. For what purpose? For the one mission of creating a single
fly, they wouldn't be able to do it. إِن يَسْلُبْهُمُ ٱلذُّبَابُ شَيْـًٔا لَّا يَسْتَنقِذُوهُ مِنْهُ And even if, even if the fly was to
steal something away from them. They would not be able to recover it. They will not even be able to try to retrieve it, they wouldn't even be able to get a piece of it back. Now before I go to the end, which is the lesson of the example; because remember examples the purpose of them is to teach you a lesson. Before I go to that I want to share something with you about this parable. Allah 'azzawajal
is describing here the idol and Fir'own. And Allah says that a fly they cannot create. Forget creating, if a fly robbed them, they wouldn't be able to get their stuff back. Why would He talk about a fly like that? Well you see for many religions with all due respect to people who you know, practice different religions, I'm not going to make fun of a particular religion or anything like that. But in many religions that have idol worship that have some kind of giant idol for whatever reason, they don't just go and worship the idol. They put some kind of milk, honey, chocolate Twix Snickers in front of the idol. And then they worship. You know like you walk up like 4000 steps. And you're really thirsty, but you brought the chocolate milk for the idol. So you put it there and you're like you're doing your thing. Now you're a tourist like from America or something. And you go up to the the you know, 4000 steps, you're like, 'wow, that was hard.' 'I'm thirsty.'

If you reach for the chocolate milk that was meant for the giant idol, who's you know that guy, what is the guy who's praying next to you or meditating, what does he do?

'Don't touch that!' Why? Because that's for who? For the idol. The only problem with this picture is when you leave food open, unattended, what shows up?
Flies. So [buzzing sound] fly shows up and it sits on the nose of the idol. And in its fly language says, 'I'm gonna drink your chocolate milk, what you gonna do about it?' And then it goes down
and flies away. Does it happen? Sure. And is that giant false god capable of defending its sacred food? These poor meditators and worshipers are constantly going, 'No, come on, that's for my god, leave him alone.' Right? In other words, this example is really powerful because Allah is saying the foundations of your faith are destroyed before your eyes by a small fly. Why don't you think? Have you ever thought about this? You people are putting these devotions in front of your idols. They can't even defend themselves against flies. وَلَوِ ٱجْتَمَعُواْ لَ Even if they all got together for it, 'That fly just drank chocolate milk from our god. Let's get it.' Like what are they gonna do? What are they gonna do? But this idol was not just an idol or the people calling someone other than Allah. It wasn't just about idols, who else was it about? It's about Fir'own. So what about Fir'own? Fir'own is sitting up inside one of his pyramids. Eating a cheeseburger. A fly shows up. It takes a little bit of his lettuce. He finishes his bite and says, 'No one takes from Fir'own' 'Get it back.' So his armies are nervous. They're trying to catch this fly. They finally catch it. Then they're in a hurry because they quickly have to invent the microscope and the Petri dish. Then they have to get laser little needles to get the lettuce back. Can they do it? Once it's gone,
it's gone. It's gone. I don't care how powerful Fir'own is, I don't care, I don't care how many armies he has. He is powerless when it comes to the
robbery that happened at the hands of a fly. If a fly was to take something away from him, he wouldn't be able to get it back. Allah demonstrates the powerlessness of false gods and He doesn't need to give you some elaborate example. All He needs to use is a single
fly. Subhanallah But this is not the lesson. This is just a preparation. The real lesson of the Ayah is one of the most beautiful expressions in the entire Qur'an: ضَعُفَ ٱلطَّالِبُ وَٱلْمَطْلُوبُ I'll write the english translation of it
down for you. 'The seeker and the sought are both inherently weak.'

The seeker
and the sought. The one who is seeking and the thing that is being sought are both inherently weak. In this particular case, the seeker is the worshiper and the sought is the god. The false god that is being worshiped and they're both inherently weak. They're both inherently weak. So the Mushrik is weak and his idol is weak. The armies of Fir'own are weak and the people who worship Fir'own are weak and who else is weak? Fir'own this week. The Qur'an actually even hints possibly at the idea that Fir'own was even physically weak. فَتَوَلَّىٰ بِرُكْنِهِ He, he turned on his lean, which means he couldn't even turn properly. He had a cane or something he had to kind of lean on. He's like an old grimy, old wrinkled man who's like can't even stand up straight and he's so ugly and arrogant, still. And he's so drunk on his power man, you're not even strong enough to stand without a cane and you think you're a god? That's like that was his case. It was just this disgusting image of a man drunk on power even though he's got one foot in the grave already. You know? But anyway, so both the seeker
and the sought a weak. Now I want you to understand the universal axiom; it is very powerful. The seeker and the sought sought are both inherently weak. You know why I said inherently? I didn't just say weak, I added the word inherently because (ضَعُفَ) the verb pattern from (ضعيف) is something that is-- it's naturally a part of you. It is not something that happened later on, it was always a part of you. In other words,
weakness is the very nature of everyone who is seeking and everything that is being sought. So the universal idea here is extremely powerful. Let me give you an example. How many college students here? College students. Okay, very good. University students, right? I say college for university. We're confused in America. It's okay. Right. So you're you are really hoping
to finish your degree, isn't it true? You're really really hoping to finish your degree And you're hoping to finish it within time. You're hoping to finish it maybe even earlier. But if things don't work out and I pray that they do for you. But if things don't work out family emergency, you have to drop out of school, the money is not there anymore. You can't afford to go anymore. The father wants you to take over the family business, something happened, you can't go to school anymore. You know you have to take care of your younger brother and sister because your mother is sick or something. If that happens you know what happens to
most people? They become really depressed. Why do they become depressed? What were they seeking? A degree. And when that that degree was not there anymore. When that was taken away, their weakness was displayed because they went into depression. There's a young man who's obsessed with a girl who wants to marry her but she doesn't like him. Or even if she likes him, she says 'My dad said no.' He says, 'So what? It's only a little bit Haram.' But she says, 'No it's too haram, I'm not gonna do it, I'm just gonna get married normally.' And she goes and marries somebody else. And what happens to this guy? He gets into serious depression. I've even seen a case in New York where a guy jumped off the Queensboro Bridge and committed suicide; Muslim kid. because he was obsessed with this girl and She got married. The seeker is weak. And the proof of the seeker being weak is whatever you're seeking itself is also weak because you may or may not get it. It may or may not happen for you. One of the craziest cases of that never leaves my mind is when I was studying abnormal psychology, it was
a great course, abnormal psychology. Because my my professor displayed pretty much every manifestation of every abnormal psychological behavior we studied. But anyway we're studying abnormal psychology and we're learning about this hospital, Bellevue Hospital in New york city. That is one of the world's leading psychiatric treatment facilities. And N. Y. U. Downtown in New york city is--has a great psychology program. In about 1980 something '89 or something there was a student who who who typed
up his PhD thesis, a work of four years. He typed it up and he submitted it to the university and he didn't make an extra copy of it. And the administration lost his PhD paper. They lost his paper. There's no second copy of it. It's typed up. You know up until like three or four years ago he was still found every few
weeks walking around N. Y. U. Campus yelling and screaming saying 'Don't go to school here, they'll steal your work.' 'They're are a bunch of thieves, they don't mean it. This is not a real education.' And they have to admit him to the hospital every few weeks. And he comes back and wanders around campus yelling and screaming. And this was a PhD. His mental capacity--he fell apart internally. He just self destructed, why? Because the thing that he wanted most was what? PhD. When that is gone he's gone. When that is gone, he is gone. For some people, their looks are everything that's all they want is to look good. When that is gone they are gone. For some people, money is everything, status is everything, clothes are everything being able to show off your stuff is everything. When that is gone, they're gone. This is the lesson being taught inside this Ayah. What you are pursuing is weak. Realize what you're pursuing is weak. Which is making what? You weak. Inherently. But you know what's even more
beautiful? Right before this Ayah, Allah 'azzawajal said: مَا قَدَرُواْ ٱللَّهَ حَقَّ قَدْرِهِۦٓ ۗ إِنَّ ٱللَّهَ لَقَوِىٌّ عَزِيزٌ They did not appreciate Allah like He deserved to be appreciated. Allah certainly is Strong, Mighty, Authoritative. In other words right before talking about how weak we are, Allah talked about how strong He is. And that is actually the-- and He said 'You didn't appreciate Me' to teach us a very powerful lesson and that powerful If you learn to seek Allah you will become strong because everything other than Allah is weak which will make you weak. So if you want to be strong, seek Allah. I want to give you just one example of seeking Allah that hopefully sticks in your minds. Maybe you've heard about the major flood and hurricane that came to the United States about I think it's been about a decade now; Hurricane Katrina. It came to New Orleans, right? There's a Muslim community in New Orleans. Sheikh Omar Sulaiman is from there actually. He's from Baton Rouge, Louisiana and he, um, he used to drive over to New Orleans for school. I met him back then, he was still gigantic. Even then. But anyway, so there's a friend of mine that lives in New Orleans who recently moved out of there. He--his father owned a car dealership. Okay? And his father is very conservative, Mashallah, does not want to get involved in any kind of Riba. So all the cars he bought were cash. And they were into luxury cars. So they only bought, they bought nothing less than a Lexus or a 7 series BMW. 5 series is too low end for them and S-500 or more. Right. So their car dealership was only high end exotic luxury cars, that's what they sold. In cash. The flood came-and by the way they had a beautiful dealership, it was right on the water. So the flood came. The only car left was the Lexus LS 400 I think they had. Or 450. That they escaped in. It's the only the car they had left. The house was flooded, the dealership was gone, there was no insurance, nothing. It's over. When I went to visit him six months after the storm, he used to deliver pizza in the Lexus. And his father who ran the business I went to visit a small apartment they lived in-- actually the father, the mother, they all worked at the pizzeria. They all worked at the pizzeria. And these people were living large before. You understand what I'm saying? And now they're working at a pizza place. There's mom working in the back, sweating away. You know, making pizzas. And so I talked to them. I said, I asked uncle, 'How are you doing?' 'How are you coping?' And he said, 'I'm happy.' I said, 'Please explain how are you happy?' And he said, 'You know, when the dealership was there it was always about how much money is coming in.' 'The customer's not paid the payment yet. What about the taxes? What about this?' 'What about that?' 'Allah took all of that away. And now I have time to go to Fajr in the morning and I pray Isha at the Masjid and I've started memorizing Qur'an again. And there's still a roof over our head. There's still food on the table.' 'I have nothing to complain about.' And I just listened to that and said, 'Wow.' ضَعُفَ الطَّالِبُ وَالْمَطلُوب Anybody else whose pursuit is not Allah a non-believer whose pursuit is not Allah goes through that kind of loss. And you know what happens next? They commit suicide. They overdose on Tylenol. Yeah, Tylenol. Don't do it. Okay. They'd hang themselves. They can't take it anymore. Just they're fine. They're just totally fine. You know? And the only thing that's moving them forward is what? 'Allah gave before, Allah will give again. What's the big deal?' And it was written for us to have it. And it's not written for us to have it. It's fine. We're still ok. Allah is still our provider. Allah didn't go anywhere. I said that's an amazing lesson in Allah gives and gives and gives and you just have to trust Him and you won't become weak. The thing that I fear most for the young generation of Muslims here and wherever I've traveled including the U. S. You know what I fear the most? Materialism. It's the only thing that scares me. I'm not so scared that they don't know a lot about Islam. That's easy. That's an easy problem to solve. Not even so scared that they're not-- the Masjids aren't filled with youth. That's an easy problem to solve. You know what the real problem to me is? That the love of material things. The next version of whatever phone, the next movie, the next game, the next you know, cars and stuff, flashy stuff, superficial stuff. That's just become your life. There's nothing more to life than this superficial stuff. This stuff is weak and the more you pursue it, you will become weak and the more you as a nation pursue it, the entire nation will become weak. We have to become strong. This is
ضَعُفَ ٱلطَّالِبُ وَٱلْمَطْلُوبُ You had better know
ٱعْلَمُوٓاْ أَنَّمَا ٱلْحَيَوٰةُ ٱلدُّنْيَا that worldly life is nothing more than
لَعِبٌ Play. Worldly life is nothing more than play. (وَزِينَةٌ ) and beautification. (وَتَفَاخُرٌۢ) and showing off among each other. Let me explain as I go the first thing when a child is born, what's the most interesting thing to them? After they get a little bit more consciousness. Playing. 'Pick me up, pick me up, pick me up.' 'Swing me around.' [laughs]. And then you put them down. [screams] They sound like an old man sometimes like [screams] when you pick them up. [laughs] You know? It's amazing the things they make us do. There are babies. They're they're they're amazing. They're like-- there's babies like

Pick it up.

No baby you don't do that. Okay. Okay. Okay. Pick it up again. That's so cute. He keeps dumping it. Who's playing who? Is the question here. You know? So
babies love games. My son one time we went to you know in in the United States we have this store called Target. It's a religious obligation for Muslim women to go there and shop. It's a thing. So my wife was fulfilling her Wajib and she was taking, you know she was going and she made me come with her and you know at the time we only had two kids uh you know or two kids that were not in school. We were--we always have many kids. I lost count. But anyway so so we only had one son at the time and he was with us at the store. And he was still a young kid. He was a little guy. And so she said I'm gonna do my shopping whatever. So I went and you know, in the store, they have these giant light bulbs, they're light, but they're giant. They're bigger than the kid. So I was like, you know, keep the kid busy. So I put the ball down for him. So he's just, you know, he barely walks and he kicks it and he barely walks and then he kicks it and he barely walks and he kicks it and he's happy. He's just happy. So she's doing her shopping. And this kid goes all around Target and Target is huge. It's a massive, massive store and this kid is going and he's going and he's sweating, he's tired, but he needs to kick the ball and I'm not going to stop him. I'm just I mean this is no work for me. I was like, I don't have to pick him up. So let's let's ride this as much as we can. And he gets so tired at one point he just, he kicks it and he just falls on his bottom and he's sitting there.

I'm coming. You know? And when he fell, I knew there's something wrong with the diaper too because you know, there's a kind of a soft fall. Look at that. It looks like mm hmm. Ok. Then I know, okay. Okay. So he's about to get up and kick it again. But his mother caught us, She's like, 'What are you doing? My poor baby, what what, why is he sweating so much?' And I said, 'No, he was just playing'
And the moment she picked him up he's gone. It's like, 'Oh my poor baby, you exhausted him.' I was like, 'No, he just wanted to play.' 'That's all they want to do is they want to play.' But these kids, they get older and as they get older when they get like 13, 14, I'm really scared of that because my older daughter is 12, I'm really terrified. She's going to be a teenager. One of the ugliest creatures found in existence. You know, teenagers anyway, when they become teenagers, you know that that for boys, there's that crazy stage when they're not quite boys anymore and they're not really men. They're like half a mustache and they sound like they drank expired milk, like. You know, like, like that, that stage, it's really sad. But anyway, but they go through that age and at that age they really, really, really want to look good. Right? So all of a sudden before that when your kid is like five years old or seven years old, they don't match their socks, they put their shoes on backwards. They don't care what they're wearing or if they're not wearing anything. Like it's all good. 'Put your clothes on boy, put your clothes on.' You know? But afterwards what happens? They want to look good. 'No, I don't want that one. That shirt doesn't match, no, no, no, I don't want that one.' 'I want this one.' 'Mom don't pick my clothes, I'll pick my own clothes.' You know, 'I want to get that.' 'I want, I want to get those earrings, Mom, can I get my ears pierced?' You know my daughters, I didn't let them get their ears pierced. Their mother was begging me to let them get their ears pierced. I was like, 'No, not my girls.' 'Put them fake things on, I don't care.' And she got them, got got them done when I was gone, I was in England and she got them pierced. It's like. But anyway, so you know, you get to a certain age and you start worrying about how you look, especially in the teenage years, you become really obsessed with how you look. And it's really funny because you constantly check yourself out. So when you're walking to the Masjid for Jumu'a and you see a teenager, it's the funniest thing. Teenagers love to check their own reflection in every car. So when they're walking they're like,

It's awesome. It's it's so good. It's so good. Sometimes I go to a Masjid early. And stay in the car just to see what happens, you know? And even the guys, the guys that have like no hair, they're like they're less than my hair. He's got no hair. He's like a buzz, he's still going. Well, well you you can't fix this. Then there's girls who didn't wear hijab and they first start wearing hijab and you know they're still-- they're always worried that their hijab is not perfect. Like it's like higher over here and lower.

You know? I used to think it's some kind of sign language then I realized there's a. I was like, 'There's a code?' [clicking sound] Like I don't know. But anyway so you're obsessed with your looks. Allah says worldly life is nothing but games and what's next? Beautification (وَزِينَةٌ). Then
وَتَفَاخُرٌۢ بَيْنَكُمْ Another stage hits you. Another stage in life where you want to show off to each other. Where you want to prove to each other. So when you go to a university and it's a prestigious university, you want to let people know that you go to that university. They didn't ask you. You just want to say it anyway. 'Hey where's the airport?' 'It's over there by the way. I study at N. Y. U.' You know if you first- if you got a job and your job gives you a nice shiny badge I. D. You don't put it in your pocket. You stick it out even when you go like a friend's house. 'Hey what's that I.D.?' 'Well you know it's my new job.' 'Here's where they let me park my car. I took a picture.' 'You wanna see a picture of where is my parking spot?' When you graduate out of school you get a diploma. What do you do with your diploma? You put it in the shelf? What do you do? You frame it on the wall. An age comes where you love telling people where you got your apartment, where where you got your job, what kind of car you bought. Because you want to let the people know that. 'Yeah man, I'm good.' But that age passes. That age passes and you stop worrying about showing other people. You don't care anymore. وَتَكَاثُرٌ فِى ٱلْأَمْوَٰلِ وَٱلْأَوْلَٰدِ The next stage hits you in life. The next stage is when you are just worried about getting enough of money. And having enough for your kids, you're just worried about the savings. You're just worried about 'We're still renting a house.' 'When are we going to buy a house?' You're just worried about 'Do we have enough money to put our kids through school?' 'How are we going to pay for college? How are we gonna do this?' 'How are we going to do that?' You're constantly worried about gaining more and more and more . And all you talk about even with your friends are financial concerns. 'Man, the expenses are getting high, how are we going do this?' 'How what are you guys doing? How are we doing?' We're constantly talking about money. Money and expenses and money and expenses and kids. Those of you that have kids know exactly what I'm talking about. It just- it overtakes your mind. وَتَكَاثُرٌ فِى ٱلْأَمْوَٰلِ وَٱلْأَوْلَٰدِ This is Allah describing a summary of what people go through in life. It's very few words. But it's a very comprehensive summary isn't it? From childhood to adulthood. And then Allah gives an example of it. This is where the fun begins. The example of it is كَمَثَلِ غَیۡثٍ I can summarize, Allah says the entire worldly life that you enjoy. You can think of it like rain falling from the sky, perfect rain. The rain is so good that the farmer comes out of his house. You know the farmer puts seed in the ground and he was worried if it's going to rain or not. He doesn't know. He's praying for the rain to come. One morning he wakes up and it's perfect rain. He looks out the window and he notices that the brown soil, he sees little little little blades of green and that makes him really happy. By the way, when that first sign of green shows up in the farm. Is that the time to make the money? No. This little green has to grow all the way to look taller than the farmer, then he has to cut it, then he has to sell it, then he's going to make his money. Isn't that the case? But you know what none of that has happened yet. Just the thought of the green makes him happy in the Ayah. Just the green makes him happy and that's important because Allah is saying: It is not the acquisition of things that makes you and me happy. It is the thought of acquiring them that makes us happy. It is not necessarily marriage that made you happy. It is the thought of getting married that you were really happy about. "You get married?"
"Yeah" [laughs]

The goofy smile on your face. You know, ask her, ask a girl who's about to get married in a couple of weeks. 'Hey, I saw

like, are you okay there? You have sinus issues. What's going on?' Every time you say his name, she  goes. 'That's not the case after marriage, we'll talk about that later.' But before. A couple of weeks before you graduate. Aren't you excited? It hasn't happened yet, but you're excited. You're not that excited after the fact. A couple of weeks before you watch the movie, 'Man, it's coming out.' 'Oh, it's gonna be awesome.' Once you watch it all, 'That was that wasn't that great.' Kids; I do this experiment with my children all the time. My children are my favorite psychological test subjects. What I--my children are really into Legos, right? We're a Legos family. So I bought them a big giant thing of Legos. And I put it up on the shelf. 'Can we play the legos?' 'No, not yet.' 30 days. 30 days. It's up on the shelf. As soon as you walk in the house you see the legos. 'Baba can I can I just hold the box?' 'Yeah, you can hold the box.' 'Oh my God, this is so awesome.' And he's standing there and he's like shaking and he's, he's [sounds of excitement] with the box, with cardboard, he's so happy. For 30 days he was so happy that I let him open it and the happiness lasted about two days. Two days and it was worth it--it was worthless. Two days later. What is the Ayah telling us? The farmer gets really excited when? At the sight of progress, at the thought of acquisition. You know, before you buy a car, you look at the car, 'man, that's a sweet ride. Mm hmm I want to get that car.' 'Such a nice car.'

Then you buy the car and you're riding the car. You're really happy for about a week. And then the new model came out and the headlights that used to be like this are now like this. Which means your car is so ugly all of a sudden. 'Why didn't they do that before? Why did they wait for me to buy this car?' 'Then they turned it like that. Oh come on.' What is
the next phase? Allah says أَعْجَبَ ٱلْكُفَّارَ نَبَاتُهُۥ ثُمَّ يَهِيجُ Then the farmer sees that the crop matures. Now when the crop matures, what are you supposed to do? Cut it. But interestingly enough in this example, Allah says when the crop matures فَتَرَىٰهُ مُصْفَرًّا
You will watch it turn yellow. 'What? I will watch it turn yellow. That's impossible.' If it turned yellow, it means it's gone bad. -It means I I- it's not- it's useless. 'How could I have watched it turn yellow, like I lost interest in it.' The only way a farmer would not actually go out and cut the mature crop is if he lost interest. Isn't it? Allah is teaching us a lesson about every stage of life. Human nature is that we get obsessed with something. As soon as we have it in our hand, what happens? It turns yellow. And that's Allah's way of saying we lose what? interest. And that happens to everything in life. It happens with children and toys. It happens with teenagers. Your teenagers are saying 'baba, please please. I know it's haram but you need to get me grand theft auto.' 'I need to have this game.' Straight to Hell. I really need it.' 'If-- I will fast all of Ramadan.' 'If you just let me just get this one game (لَنَكُونَنَّ مِنَ ٱلصَّٰلِحِينَ).' 'We will be from the righteous.' 'We promise.' And this kid, you buy him the game because you're a genius. So you buy him the game and he plays it for two days. Beats it because he did Qiyamul Layl for two nights.
And he beats the game. Then you're sitting in your for breakfast and you feel a CD under your feet. And you pick it up and you're like, 'I just bought this game for you.' 'Why is it on the floor?' 'Well I beat it. It turned yellow.' You understand what I'm trying to say? This sort of thing can even happen to a marriage. Marriage. Some some guys like 'I know'.

You know initially in your marriage it's so exciting. It's so-- the husband's obsessed with the wife. The wife is obsessed with the husband. They are both really giggly. They they say really dumb things to each other. Like, 'Allah really does make the perfect pairs, doesn't He?' And then even she says, 'Yes He does, yes, He does.' And then she sneezes and her snot is all over the car's windshield and he says, 'Your boogers are even beautiful.' Like you know he's like. It doesn't make any sense. You're you're walking together to this to the mall and she trips a little bit. You know a little like. 'Oh are you okay? Are you okay?' 'I don't ever want anything to happen to you.'

Then 10 years go by. And you're driving
and she sneezes. 'Can you keep that stuff to yourself woman?' 'They're disgusting.' You're walking to the mall. She doesn't trip. She falls. What do you do? You keep walking? You're like, 'Pick yourself up woman, you're embarrassing me.' 'God,
I can't take you anywhere in public.'

It happens, doesn't it? I hope it doesn't happen to our marriages but life is about things turning yellow. And then a man's imagination and a woman's imagination starts running wild. They see what they don't have and say, 'Maybe if I had that I would be happy.' But the reality of it is if you had that, it
would also turn yellow. That's the reality of it. That's the reality of it. You know? And Allah says,
ثُمَّ يَكُونُ حُطَٰمًا This is where things get really scary. He says eventually that yellow farm product, that produce, it turns into crust. Hutam (حُطَٰمًا) is something that tramp-- gets trampled under your feet. And you don't even realize it. When you're walking on the street, you're probably stepping over crushed leaves, but you don't realize it. You're stepping over some piece of garbage and you don't even realize it. That is how worthless this farm became to you. In the beginning it was so valuable by the end it is so worthless. So Allah is telling us an age will come in your life where the things that used to be the biggest deal to you mean nothing to you. There are people that are millionaires and billionaires but they're also 80 years old. They don't care about a sports car because they can't drive anymore. They don't care about a swimming pool because they would drown if they went inside it. They don't care about a big screen tv because they don't have the eyesight for it anymore. They don't care about a beautiful awesome sound system because they're deaf at this point. They don't care about a four floor mansion because they can't go up the stairs anymore. It doesn't mean anything to them anymore. It is all gone for them. It is worthless for them because a time comes where all this stuff will just be crust. It is nothing. There are people who give up their mansions, sell them and live in an apartment. And the young men wonder what is wrong with them. 'They gave up that house for an apartment?' And you go and ask the old man, 'Why did you move to an apartment?' And he says 'To be close to my grandkids.' 'You gave up that house to be close to your grandkids?' 'How often do you see your grandkids?' 'Once a week.' 'For that you gave up your house?' 'Your mansion.' 'That had the ocean view and everything?' 'Yeah, but what am I gonna do with the ocean view?' 'I'm only on this earth for a few more days. I want to enjoy them with my grandkids.' Young men and young women can't understand that because when they went to visit their mansion they were like, 'wow, I would kill to live here.' 'Let's kill them. Now.' 'We can live here.'

How in the world did they give that up? Eventually things will become worthless to you. This one example in the Qur'an is so powerful. It is so powerful about the nature of worldly life and how we get so attached to stuff. Not realizing that before long you will lose interest. You lose interest in the clothes you bought that when you bought them were the most amazing thing. And the shoes you bought, and the tv you bought, and the car you bought, and the house
you bought. In everything. Everybody wants something they don't have. That's what they want. They just want something they don't have. And Allah says at the end of it all, He says, وَفِى ٱلْءَاخِرَةِ عَذَابٌ شَدِيدٌ وَمَغْفِرَةٌ مِّنَ ٱللَّهِ وَرِضْوَٰنٌ By the way, this is mentioned at the end for a beautiful reason. He says in the end is either intense punishment or Allah's forgiveness and His contentment. The reason this is mentioned at the end is because everything else is temporary. And in the end, finally, you get what is permanent and what is permanent? Either intense punishment that is permanent and it will never go yellow. In other words, it won't be like, 'oh I'm used to it, I've gone through it for a year.' 'I'm good now.' It won't be like that. It'll stay intense or it will be the forgiveness of Allah and you will be pleased and content and finally be happy. And that happiness will not go away. You will not get bored of that happiness and say, 'well, I want something else.' 'I want to change in life. It's too routine for me now.' It won't happen in Jannah. You'll stay happy. Did you--I I don't think I've talked about the latter part of Surat ar-Rahman in this, in this venue, meaning in KL before or in Malaysia at all before. But I will tell you one thing about marriage in the Qur'an. One thing just one thing alone. Married people here show of hands. Married people. Okay. إنّا لله وإنّا إليهِ رَاجعُو One more time. I want you to for a second-I know it's embarrassing- I want you to imagine the first day of your marriage. Recollect the first day of your marriage. Recollect the first time you saw her, gentlemen. The first time you saw her. The first 24 hours you spent with her. Wasn't that an amazing day?

Not for you. I don't want to know. For you guys, for us. We know it was awesome. Now the thing is in the Qur'an, a Allah 'azzawajal describes the spouse of Jannah. I'm coming to that. And you know how he describes her? she's she's so shy of her husband, she doesn't make eye contact. She's so shy of her husband. She doesn't make eye contact. Is your wife so shy of you right now, after 10 years he doesn't make eye contact? Oh boy. Now it is time for you to avoid eye contact because she's staring at you. Your wife, now
has these super powers That when you are hanging out with your friends outside. 'Hey guys don't worry about it. I got it.' 'I'll cover today's dinner guys, I'll go to the A. T. M.' When you swipe the A. T. M. meanwhile your wife is at home sleeping. She wakes up.

And she doesn't tell you that she knows because she has an alert installed in her brain. For when you use money. So when you come home and you think she's sleeping. But she's smart because you know, but when you come home, you're gonna eat some chocolate in the fridge.
So she wraps it in aluminum foil. You know why? Because it makes noise.

So you're undoing the aluminum foil and she shows up behind you. 'Where were you?' 'Did you take out any money?' Now she knows you took out money. Because
from the Ghaib she found out. But she won't tell you. She knows. She wants to test you. 'Did you take out any money?' 'Uh, I don't remember.' 'You took out money.' 'Why can't you be honest with me?' And she looks at you with those eyes and you would want to die.

Now
the first day of your marriage, you looked at her and you said 'You look so beautiful.' And she wouldn't even make eye contact with you. She would just look down.

Allah describes in Jannah that every time you look at your wife, she will get shy. In other words. Every day of your marriage will be the first day of your marriage. That's Jannah. I know when you still liked him.

Now, before I go to the final session of our program, I do have to answer one question that came from the audience. Um, I get this question pretty much every time I travel. It is usually asked by a sister, but it's never a sister's question. It is a sister's friend who asked the question. So she comes up to me and says, 'This is a question. It's not my question.' 'I have a friend who has this question.' 'I need you to answer this question for my friend. It's not me.' So this is not for you. This is for your friend. Just being clear. 'Men get these Hoor in Jannah. What do women get?' 'That's my question.' 'No, sorry not my question. My
friend, my friend. Her question.' So I would like to make a few comments about what women get in Jannah. Because apparently there's a problem
for your friend. Okay. The thing of it is there are lots of men in the audience today. So I can tell you this and my conclusions on this subject are a result of discussions with some-not just scholars-but some very old wise men. Some very old wise men and also some psychological experiments I've conducted in my own time. So I'll start with the wise old men. I asked a very wise old mentor one time 'Why do you think men are described as having these spouses and this and that?' 'But Allah never talks about what women get in Jannah. How come that is?' And he said, 'let me tell you something son.' 'Men are never confused about what they want.'

I didn't say it-my friend.

But I wasn't satisfied with the answer. So I decided to dig a little deeper. I used to teach a Sunday school and I took all the 4 like-- 100 teenage boys and 100 teenage girls, put a partition down the middle, give them each a piece of paper and said 'you have 30 seconds write down what you want.' 'It doesn't matter if it's Halal or Haram. I will not judge you.' 'I will not share this with anyone else.' 'You just be open and free. Imagine nothing is Haram, nothing is forbidden.' 'Whatever your heart desires what you want the most in life. Just put it down on paper.' '30 seconds. Go.' 30 seconds later- it didn't didn't take the boys 30 seconds- it was gone in 10 seconds on the boys side. 30 seconds later, what do I hear on the girls side? 'Can I have 30 more seconds?'

And then I have people passing-- the
girls are passing back their answers. They're handing the paper. 'No no, can I have that back? I need it back, I need it back.' 'Wait I changed my mind.' No boy changed his mind. Nobody there is Ijma on this side of the Ummah. But the girl's side- and even then you get an answer and it's like crossed over three times. And my favorite on the girls side. By the way I will not tell you what the boys said. You already know what the boys said. But I'm gonna say it, so. But the girls- one of my favorite answers. My
favorite and it was repeated several times. You know what the answer was on the girls side. Any ladies would like to guess.

You know what the answer was? The answer was? It depends.

So

Now here's the, here's the- in all seriousness. In all seriousness. Allah made men with horse blinders And they want some things and that's all they want. Allah put that in an Ayah of the Qur'an. زُيِّنَ لِلنَّاسِ حُبُّ ٱلشَّهَوَٰتِ مِنَ
ٱلنِّسَآءِ وَٱلْبَنِينَ وَٱلْقَنَٰطِيرِ ٱلْمُقَنطَرَةِ مِنَ ٱلذَّهَبِ وَٱلْفِضَّةِ
وَٱلْخَيْلِ ٱلْمُسَوَّمَةِ وَٱلْأَنْعَٰمِ وَٱلْحَرْثِ That's men. Done. One Ayah. Here's what men want. They want--they love beautiful women. They want lots of money. They want to have sons. They want to have successful businesses. You know and you know continual work. (وَٱلْأَنْعَٰمِ وَٱلْحَرْثِ) And return on their investments. Men are done. 'I'm good.' Allah never mentioned such a thing for women. You know why? Because Allah did not create women with a singular way of thinking. Allah did not create women in a monolithic way like He created men. Men's psychology is a lot simpler than women's psychology. Even in modern psychology. That's not to say that women are inferior or they are less than men. They are far more complex than men. There's a lot more going on with women than is going on with men. There's not much going on here for us. There's not much, it can be put in one Ayah and you're done. Do you understand? But I do want to tell ladies something that is important to note here. Even though I'm taking time away from that last session that I really want to have with you guys. But it's important to mention Allah 'azzawajal-- First of all, I want you to know: وَلَكُمْ فِيهَا مَا تَشْتَهِىٓ أَنفُسُكُمْ وَلَكُمْ فِيهَا مَا تَدَّعُونَ is a promise of Allah to all human beings. Allah says whoever makes it into Jannah, you will get whatever you desired. Allah did not mention the desire itself, He said he will get-- you will get whatever, whatever yourselves desire. That includes men and that includes women. That's the first thing I'd like to share with you that applies to you. In other words, don't worry, you will not be-- some women say, 'Well men got all this stuff. What are we gonna get?' 'Come on. Just tell me.' Allah is telling you whatever you,
want, whatever you want. And I have daughters and I love them. And I want them to be in Jannah. But I can tell you that's a hard thing because when I take them into a store and I say get whatever you want, it is the hardest thing they will ever do in their life. It is so stressful for them. It is so- they're so stressed out. About what to get. 'I'm confused.' 'I don't know.' 'Can I have this?' 'Yes, you can have it.' 'No, I don't want it now.'

In Jannah, you won't have that problem.

It'll be solved for you. Then there's the other thing. And by the way, I have tried to figure this out with my wife, with my daughters. I have three sisters. I've tried to figure this out with them. Sometimes they're upset. And I say, 'What do you want? Tell me what you want.' 'Just tell, I will do it.' 'Whatever it is. You just tell me.' 'You won't understand.'

'You're right.' But I want to say one last thing about this. One last thing. Promise. One last thing and this is actually for all of us to appreciate an honor Allah gave to women. I personally believe I'm not doing this to please the sisters. God knows I've gotten in enough trouble with you guys today already. So clearly I'm not out to and interested in making you happy. But I just want to tell you something- a reality. I personally believe in my own studies of the Qur'an that there is an honor given to women that is far beyond the honor given to men when it comes to Jannah. That's my personal belief. You don't have to share it with me. And I'll tell you what it's based on. Allah 'azzawajal says in Surat ash-Shura that the people who forgive others, they will be, they will be given a reward. And the reward is described as (على الله). Their reward is Allah's responsibility. In other words, the reward was not described as Jannah or rivers or fruits or mansions or women or nothing. The reward was described as what? Allah's responsibility. I'll take care of you. That's all He said. And it is, it is my belief that, that Ayah is the greatest reward mentioned in the Qur'an. Why? Because Allah gave the Qur'an as the most eloquent, the most accurate speech ever. The speech that can describe everything and the reward for these people is so incredible that it was beyond description. Even in the Qur'an, the only thing that can be said is what? Allah will take care of you. The fact that Allah did not mention what women get in the Qur'an is an indication, to me personally, you don't have to accept what I'm saying, to me personally, it is an indication that what Allah has in store for my mother, for my daughters, for my sisters, for my wife may Allah accept all of our mothers and daughters and sisters and wives and to Jannah that what Allah has for them is beyond description. That it cannot be limited in words. The fact that it cannot be limited in words is an honor given to women, not a disservice to them. It is the lens with which you look at Allah's Rahma that will determine what you think about Allah. So instead of saying how come Allah didn't say anything, You should say 'Whoa,
Allah didn't even describe it.' That's a surprise. That's the package. You understand sisters? Okay.
