So one question about translation. Fir'own was not an Arab, but he speaks in Arabic in the Qur'an. Musa was not an Arab but he speaks in Arabic in the Qur'an. 'Isa is not an Arab but he speaks in Arabic in the Qur'an. Nuh 'alaihissalam we don't even know what he spoke. But he speaks in Arabic in the Qur'an. Okay. Ibrahim 'alaihissalam traveled all over the place. He traveled in Iraq. He traveled in Palestine. He traveled all over. We don't know what he spoke, but he spoke Arabic in the Qur'an. Which means Allah is translating isn't He? Allah is translating. So you ever heard this concept of lost in translation? Some things are lost in translation because no one language can fully be communicated in another language. At least not when human beings translate. But the idea of the Qur'an is that Allah is translating. And so there's a fundamental difference between us attempting to translate and Allah translating. Allah's translation, by definition, would have to be perfect. And a perfect translation means that not only are the words translated, but the emotions and the environment and the the feeling. The complete scene that took place is translated, so the translations of the Qur'an actually go far beyond the words that were said originally. They capture the words, but they actually also capture the emotions of the original people who said them. This is what makes the translations of the Qur'an themselves miraculous. Also, this teaches us a lesson that we have to exhaust great deals of effort in trying to translate the word of Allah to anyone else, because Allah Himself left us the legacy of translation. One of the most beautiful examples of translation is by Salman al-Farsi. You guys better know who that is. Salman al-Farsi who translated the Fatiha into Farsi. He translated--he actually wrote a translation of the Fatiha in Persian. And to this day, any translation of the Qur'an in Persian. The translation of the Fatiha has never changed. It's the same one. It is from Salman al-Farsi. So the legacy of translating the Qur'an begins with the Sahaba, and the legacy of translating the past is in the Qur'an itself. The Qur'an itself translated other cultures into the Arabic language, right? So there is that that that issue. So, yes, there are, for example, and there are other issues associated with this. For example, Allah will say sometimes you know that the angels came to Zakariyya and said, 'You will not speak for three days.' Another time they'll say, 'You will not speak for three nights.' Wait a second and in Surat al-'Imran Allah said, 'You won't speak for three days.' In another--in Surat Mariam Allah says he won't speak for three nights أَلَّا تُكَلِّمَ ٱلنَّاسَ ثَلَٰثَ لَيَالٍۢ سَوِيًّا And there ( ثَلَٰثَةَ أَيَّامٍ إِلَّا رَمْزًا) 
How come? It's the same conversation how come three days and three nights? Well, really interestingly, you know, is it possible that the angels repeated themselves? In the beginning of the conversation, they said, three days, remember? Three days. Okay. And as they're leaving, they say, what? Three nights. But why separate those two? He separated those two for yet another beautiful reason. Ali 'Imran is full of evidence and bringing people out of darkness into light and taking things that were secret and making them known and there Allah used three days, because the the idea of bringing things out of the darkness into light and removing secrecy is associated with the day. And in Surat Mariam the entire Surah the first passage of the Surah is dark. Zakariyya 'alaihissalam is in the middle of the night. He's asking Allah secretly for a Du'a. He's telling Allah, he's reached old age and the hair has lost color. It's been it's gone on fire. And everything is dark. And still. And I'm about to die and people are going to take my place, and I don't know what's going to happen. So the dark texture of Surat Mariam's beginning is complemented by saying, 'You won't speak to people for three nights.' In other words, the Qur'an actually takes into account what kind of mood is the passage generating. And the wording of the Ayat is actually, you know, influenced by the mood of the passage. It's consistent with it. Subhanallah. There's another-- just a literary nuance inside the Qur'an. This next example that I want to share with you now is a really, really beautiful example. It is a summary of the life of the Prophet ﷺ. And I'll show you how. Listen carefully, أَنزَلَ مِنَ ٱلسَّمَآءِ مَآءً 
Allah sent- He sent sent water down from the sky فَسَالَتْ أَوْدِيَةٌۢ بِقَدَرِهَاً then the valley--listen. Water came from the sky. Means it started raining right? فَسَالَتْ أَوْدِيَةٌۢ بِقَدَرِهَا Then the valleys started getting flooded as much as they possibly could. (بِقَدَرِهَا) as much as they could. So Allah is describing rain, and it rained so much that it floods. Okay. فَٱحْتَمَلَ ٱلسَّيْلُ زَبَدًا رَّابِيًا
 Then the floodwaters they started carrying the foam. You know what foam means? Foam (زَبَدًا) is like, uh, you know, when you have on the ground, you have, uh, torn up pieces of leaves and twigs and small rocks and pebbles and things like that? Just this--just the stuff on the ground. And when the water comes, it starts kind of sweeping all of that up and it turns into foam on top. So the flood waters start taking the dirt and the filth and the impurities of the land. It starts flooding them away and turning them into to foam. Uh, so now, speaking of foam, this bubbly stuff, this foam. Speaking of it, there's another kind of foam. وَمِمَّا يُوقِدُونَ عَلَيْهِ فِى ٱلنَّارِ
And you know, additionally there's another kind of foam that comes when you light-- when you when you light fires up, in order to burn metals. So there's a quick transition in the Ayah. First Allah talks about rainwater and valleys being flooded and foam coming and the filth being removed in the form of foam. Speaking of foam, you can imagine another kind of foam when you burn iron or you burn steel and you burn gold and the foam rises, the bubbles rise to the top and He says, 'Why do you burn it?' ٱبْتِغَآءَ حِلْيَةٍ أَوْ مَتَٰعٍۢ
 And in the pursuit of jewelry or in the pursuit of utensils. In other words, when do you burn metal? When you burn metal, when you want to mold it to make jewelry or you burn metal to make a fork and a spoon and a shovel or something, you understand? And so He says
زَبَدٌ مِّثْلُهُۥ Actually that is another kind of foam similar to the previous foam, similar to the previous (زَبَدٌ مِّثْلُهُۥ) كَذَٰلِكَ يَضْرِبُ ٱللَّهُ ٱلْحَقَّ وَٱلْبَٰطِلَ That is how Allah strikes truth against falsehood.
فَأَمَّا ٱلزَّبَدُ فَيَذْهَبُ جُفَآءً And as far as the original foam, it will dissipate. It will disappear. It will wither away. It will become nothing.
وَأَمَّا مَا يَنفَعُ ٱلنَّاسَ فَيَمْكُثُ فِى ٱلْأَرْضِ As far as what benefits people, it will become stationed in the earth كَذَٰلِكَ يَضْرِبُ ٱللَّهُ ٱلْأَمْثَالَ That is how Allah gives examples. Wow, it seems at first glance, it is a very confusing example. Floodwaters came, foam rose. People are melting metals, foam rises by the way, they melt metals to make jewelry and they melt metals to make utensils. And then Allah strikes truth against falsehood. Then the foam will disappear. And what benefits people will stay in place. And that's the example
Allah gives. Let's explore this a little furhter. The Qur'an came from the sky. It came into the valley of Makkah and it flooded every street. Every house. Just like the rain comes from the sky and the water floods as much as it possibly can. Now there are people in Makkah who internalize the message of Islam. The water enters the soil and benefits the soil. Life comes out of the soil when water enters. But there are elements of the soil that are useless, that are lifeless, that have no good in them. They are simply the dirt of the earth, the filth of the earth. It gets flooded away and moved out of the place. So Allah is describing by flood, the flood waters here represent the message of Islam, the Qur'an. The filth that rose to the top is the disbelievers who rejected the message of Islam. And they have clearly been separated from the believers, He says, speaking of this separation, there's another kind of separation. When you burn metal, the Prophet ﷺ moves to Medina. If the filth, the foam, the filth of Makkah was the disbelievers, what is the filth of Medina? What is the filth of Medina? I'll give you a hint. It's deeply embedded inside the metal. It's the hypocrites. And in order to get those hypocrites out, what must you do? You remember the parable that was given before. You must burn the metal, and in order to burn the metal, the foam will rise. But why do you burn the metal? What does Allah say? Why do you burn the medal? To make jewelry and to make utensils. An example of jewelry would be a necklace. Bangles. Right? Bracelets. Those would be jewelry. What would be an example of a utensil? A fork, a spoon. Right? Now, you tell me if you're gonna make all the effort to burn metal, which one would you rather get at the end? I mean, they're both useful, but which one is more valuable? Jewelry. Which is why He mentioned jewelry first. Interestingly, I already told you before Muslims being put under intense temperatures, what was that used for? That was that was an imagery of the Qur'an for battle. Remember? That's the Quranic imagery for battle. Now, when the Muslims go into battle, when the Sahaba go into Badr, when they go into Uhud when they go into Ahzaab, why do they go into Badr, Uhud and Ahzaab? For what reason? What are they--what are they running towards? What do they want? One answer. They want Jannah. Simple answer. They want Jannah. In Surat as-Saff however Allah says you want Jannah, but you also want victory. You want Jannah and you also want victory. And as a matter of fact, He says in Surat as-Saff He say hello to look هَلْ أَدُلُّكُمْ عَلَىٰ تِجَٰرَةٍۢ تُنجِيكُم مِّنْ عَذَابٍ أَلِيمٍۢ Should I tell you of a deal, of a business deal that will save you from painful punishment? And if you take this deal you know, يَغْفِرْ لَكُمْ ذُنُوبَكُمْ وَيُدْخِلْكُمْ جَنَّٰتٍۢ تَجْرِى مِن تَحْتِهَا ٱلْأَنْهَٰرُ وَمَسَٰكِنَ طَيِّبَةً فِى جَنَّٰتِ عَدْنٍۢ ۚ ذَٰلِكَ ٱلْفَوْزُ ٱلْعَظِيمُ I will enter you into gardens. You'll have beautiful homes. You're going to be really, really happy there. That's the ultimate success. When you're living in the gardens of Eden. وَأُخْرَىٰ تُحِبُّونَهَا Secondarily you also love that help of Allah would come and victory should arrive. نَصْرٌ مِّنَ ٱللَّهِ وَفَتْحٌ قَرِيبٌ In other words, there are two goals. The first goal is Jannah. The second goal is what? Victory. The first goal is far more valuable than the second. Why? Because the first goal is Jannah, and the second goal is just in this world; victory in this world. Now, in this Ayah, when you burn metal, you burn it for something far more valuable and far less valuable. The far more valuable is jewelry. The far less valuable is utensils, but they're still good. But just don't be so impressed with utensils. At the end of the day you just use them. You're not there--You're like you don't-You are not proud of your utensils. Utensils aren't of real value.
What's the real value? Your jewelry. So if you have to let go of the utensils or jewelry if you're like hey, we have to leave here. Make sure you pack all the valuables. What are you gonna pack? The jewelry. 'Oh, wait. I forgot my fork.' You're not gonna do that. You're not gonna do that. So what is the Muslim learning? We are working towards Jannah. If victory comes, that's cool. If not, it's not a big deal. We still got Jannah. Right? Now look at this example. This incredible example. The first kind of foam came as a result of a flood. The second kind of foam came as a result of burning fire. Just like that the Makkan Qur'an, the D'awah of Islam spread everywhere. And it was easy to separate believer from disbeliever. But the separation of the Munafiq from the Mu'min in Medina could only happen when Muslims went into battle. And Muslims only went into battle to earn the gold, which is Jannah. And also maybe hopefully get the spoon, which is victory. This is how Allah strikes truth against falsehood. Then Allah goes back and He says, 'Let me tell you about the first foam.' The first foam was from the flood. You remember that? The foam from the flood, who does it represent? The Quraysh. The Quraysh of Makkah. The second form who does it represent? The hypocrites. Allah only talks about the first foam and He says فَأَمَّا ٱلزَّبَدُ فَيَذْهَبُ جُفَآءً As for the first foam, it will go and dissipate and disappear. What happened eventually in Makkah? Did the Kuffar of Makkah disappear? Did Kufr disappear from Makkah? Sure. Interestingly enough, in this, Ayah Allah did not talk about the disappearance of the second kind of foam. What was the second kind of foam? Hypocrisy. Did hypocrisy disappear from the Ummah? No. And then at the end of it all, وَأَمَّا مَا يَنفَعُ ٱلنَّاسَ فَيَمْكُثُ فِى ٱلْأَرْضِ And as for what will benefit people, it will stay in the land. In other words, the word of Allah is established. It has entered and penetrated and the word of Allah and the Qur'an And this Deen will continue to spread. It has now become a part of this land. So (فَيَمْكُثُ فِى ٱلْأَرْضِ) and then at the end of it all Allah says And that is how Allah gives an example.

Incredible stuff. Just so you know why this is so powerful? Because the next time the believer sees rain, he remembers the entire Seerah. He just remembers the entire Seerah. Also, by giving the example of the message of Islam spreading to every valley. We are learning a very powerful philosophical lesson about how Islam should be carried to the world today. And that lesson is as follows. Unless the message of the Qur'an enters every nook and cranny. Unless every household in society knows what the Qur'an has to say, we cannot blame the disbelievers. We cannot take the next step and say we have to go to war against the disbelievers. Because the Prophet ﷺ did not pick up arms against the Quraysh until they actually fully what? Knew. We are living in complicated times. We are in such complicated times forget telling the most non Muslim world about the message of the Qur'an. We are living in the tragic times where the Muslims don't know the word of Allah. So what are we talking about the next steps for? What was the actual mission of the Prophet ﷺ? To deliver this message. Today we're not even doing the delivery to our own families. So how are we talking about the next steps? There's a loss of perspective that's that's, you know, that's afflicting us.
