اَلْحَمْدُ لِلَّٰهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينِ وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى سَيِّدِ الْأَنْبِيَاءِ وَالْمُرْسَلِينِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ وَمَنْ اِسْتَنَّ بِسُنَّتِهِ إِلَى يَوْمِ الدِّينِ اَلَّهُمَّ جَعَلْنَا مِنْهُم وَمِنَ ٱلَّذِينَ ءَامَنُوْا وَعَمِلُوا۟ ٱلصَّـٰلِحَـٰتِ وَتَوَاصَوْا بِٱلْحَقِّ وَتَوَاصَوْا بِٱلصَّبْرِ آمين يَا رَبَّ الْعَالَمِينِ ثُمَّ اَمَّا بَعْدُ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم وَرَحْمَةُ اللّٰهِ تَعَلَى وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ So, um, I'm actually pretty intimidated by the subject that I'm about to cover it's something I've been in love with for a long time. And, um, I've had all manner of thoughts about the subject and research and study and notes, and this is the first attempt I'm making to organize all of those thoughts and present them comprehensively inshallahu ta'ala, so I ask Allah 'azwa jal
to make that task easy for me and to make this of something that is beneficial in your journey and in your understanding of the Qur'an, I don't claim that what I'm going to present is the absolute correct opinion or the ultimate truth of the subject. It's the best that I've been able to understand it. I've been trying to tackle the subject of the order and the organization and the sequence and the coherence of the Qur'an for since I began studying the Qur'an. And it's actually the first thing I found confusing about the Qur'an when I read it in translation is that it's not organized by subject matter, that it's not organized in any way that I could make sense of comparing it to any other book. You know, uh, books have logical progression. You study something in chapter one, you build on it in chapter two you build on that in chapter three. It doesn't work that way in the Qur'an, there are things that are mentioned in al-Fātiḥa that will come up maybe in the 30th juz of the Qur'an again. There are things that are mentioned in Baqarah that are repeated so often why not just make a reference to, you know, go look back at verse this and this and just keep going on. That's what books do if they want to make a reference to something that's been previously mentioned they just make a footnote or a reference to something that's already been said, or even if they want to quote it, they'll just put it in quotes, not repeat it as though it's never been said before, right? Similarly, if books contain history, usually the history is chronological, but you're going to find from the very beginning like, for example, in Sū rah al-Baqarah, the history of the Israelites, which is a huge section of Baqarah is not in chronological order. Some things that happened in Jewish history much later are mentioned sooner, and some things that happened sooner are mentioned much later. So, I'm trying to make sense of this as an early beginning student of the Qur'an, and I'm coming to the conclusion that historically it's not in chronological order. That's certainly not the case. The Qur'an is not in size order, it seems somewhat size order Baqarah is the biggest Surah I get that, but Surahs kinda get smaller as they go. But it's not exactly in size order. That's certainly not the case. It's definitely not in subject order. It's not like the cow was dealt with first and then something else and then something else. I mean, even the titles don't give it away. The name of the sūrah, famously, is al-Baqarah, and yet it's not like the entire Surah  revolves around a cow or the story of the cow. That's just one of many things talked about in the sūrah, um, and it's certainly not in the order of revelation. Many know that the earliest revelations given to the Prophet ﷺ the Meccan Qur'an, were the shortest Surahs and the shortest Surahs are the last two juz of the Qur'an are basically the short Makki Surahs that were given in the earliest time of the Prophet ﷺ The only and and of them, only one of the first complete Surah revealed was the Fatiha that's way in the beginning. And yet the earliest of all revelations in َاِقْرَأْ بِاسْمِ رَبِّكَ الَّذِي خَلَق is all the way at the end. So the Qur'an is certainly not the way that it was revealed. The one we're looking at right now, the Mushaf that we open up from Fatiha is Surah number one Baqara is two, Āl ʿImran is three Nisa is 4 all the way to Nas as 114 is not the way the Qur'an was coming down in those 23 years, that's certainly not the case. So, the question then arises, what is the organization of the Qur'an? and does that even matter? And this is not a new study. This is not a new debate. This is actually an old historical argument. Um, and there were different opinions on this understanding this problem. I'm going to share with you briefly what non-Muslims have to say, non-Muslim academics have to say first. We won't go through their quotes but overall, the majority view of Western academics is that it's a it's a collection of different sayings at different occasions that were randomly put together and sometimes put together in a very clunky, not neat kind of way. And the Muslims are okay with that because they even believe, because they were revealed in different times and different places that they don't have to see a continuity or a flow in the Ayat, they don't have to see that. They just study one Ayah at a time. And there is some truth, not entirely true, but there's some truth to that in our history. We when you study the Tafsir of the Qur'an, some of you are maybe students of the Tafsir of the Qur'an. Our Mufassirun typically take one Ayah and they comment on the words in that Ayah. They comment on the history behind that Ayah. They comment on what the first generation said about that Ayah. They may comment on what the Prophet ﷺ said about this Ayah. Maybe there's a there's a story behind the Ayah. There's a context of revelation. Maybe there are they'll cite other Ayat from other Surahs that are similar to this Ayah and cross-reference them against each other. That's a pretty that's pretty much the Tafsir. What you don't find as much in the Tafsir is, what is this Ayah doing here as Ayah number seven or Ayah number 12. What was going on before it that it is picking up on? That you find very few times, but most of the time it's like studying one Ayah is like studying one thesis by itself. It's a subject entirely on its own, like you're studying a chapter, a topic okay, and that has its benefits. You know, every Ayah does present an enormous amount of benefit, and you'll find also that the most similar Ayat to a particular like, let's say somebody, for instance, is studying Surah Al-Ankabut the 29th Surah of the Qur'an, and they come across certain ayat ‏أَحَسِبَ ٱلنَّاسُ أَن يُتْرَكُوٓا۟ أَن يَقُولُوٓا۟ ءَامَنَّا وَهُمْ لَا يُفْتَنُونَ Have people assumed that they're going to be left alone and they're not going to be tested? Right? That just because they say they believe they're not going to be put to the test. Essentially, that's what Allah says. Now, an Ayah like that if you want to further that Ayah, you know, what typically is going to happen? Like someone like al-Shanqiti  رَحِمَهُ ٱللَّٰهُ is going to say, well, look at this Surah in Āl 'Imran and look at this Surah or this Ayah in Āl 'Imran. And look at this Ayah in Baqara. Look at this other Ayah elsewhere. Allah said similar things in these these places and he'll put them together. So when we're thinking about interpreting the Qur'an and cross-referencing we are, even most of the time, not thinking about this Surah, we're just thinking this Ayah is similar to other Ayahs. So in a sense, we're accepting the view that this isn't supposed to be studied in flow. And some people who argue that the Qur'an is supposed to be studied one Surah at a time, one unit at the time, this is the way  Allah wants it to be recited. There's a purpose behind the organization of a Surah. There was actually a counter argument against it. So what I'm first going to present to you today my my goal today is just two things and I'll give you an outline before I begin the entire program. My goal tonight is to share with you why I personally believe that the order of the Qur'an is decided by Allah ʿazza wa jalla down to every Ayah. Meaning, Fatiha then the Ayat of the Fatiha are in this order because Allah wants them to be and that's actually agreed upon, everybody agrees with that. The sequence of the Ayahs within a Surah everybody agrees. But even the sequence of the Surahs themselves, Fatiha should be placed first, Baqara should be second, Ali 'Imran should be third, Nisa should be fourth. I, personally, hold the view I find it far more convincing that that's the way Allah intends it. That is the view that that that that's by design revealed to the Prophet ﷺ. There are counter arguments to my position and I'm going to start today by some of the counter arguments and the responses to them. And I'm going to organize my this presentation, the point of this presentation at the end of it, I want to share with you what brings me to my conviction. And that's broken up into a number of parts. There are four parts to the argument. Part one is the historical argument. Okay, so we're gonna look at arguments, counter arguments, historically. We're going to do an overview. This is not a PhD thesis. This is not an academic discourse, so I'm going to scan through some things, just give you an idea. The point is, I don't want you to become ʿUlamā' of this subject. I just want you to be aware of what kinds of debates were happening historically about this subject. Okay, that's the first one. The second is going to be textual. The textual argument, meaning are there Ayat in the Qur'an itself that are talking about this subject? Okay, that are saying the Qur'an's order should be, uh, you know, minded. The third argument is going to be a spiritual argument. Okay, and I won't explain what that means. It sounds weird, but that's okay. When we get to it, you'll see the spiritual argument itself that was presented by a remarkable scholar by the name of Ḥamīd al-Dīn Farāḥī. Okay, I'll we'll talk about him when we get there. And then the final argument is basically the argument of case studies. In other words, when you study the subject of how the Qur'an is organized, example after example after example, it starts dawning on you that this organization is way too sophisticated to be the product of the human mind. There's way too much going on here. It's way too involved, way too precise, way too remarkable for me to think that this is an accident or this is somehow people were involved in organizing it. This is beyond human capability. That 4th one is basically by way of case study, meaning this subject becomes sort of part of the iʿjāz al-Qur'an discourse, like the Qur'an's remarkably, incredibly organized, and here's some evidence towards that. Not every example I share is supposed to be absolute evidence. But when you start compiling these evidences together, it starts kind of formulating a view that this is not accidental. You know, I'm reminded of a friend of mine who's actually written a book on this subject. His name is Raymond Ferrin. He wrote a book called Structure in the Qur'an, and I had read his book. I was really fascinated by his book, and he's a professor of Arabic poetry in the University of Kuwait. Okay, he's still teaching there, and I had a chance to go to Kuwait and I took the time to go and meet him for the first time. And we we had spoken on email before, and I had invited him to come to Bayyinah campus, also to speak about the subject and remarkable story. The man was doing his PhD in Georgetown on classical Arabic poetry, the Qaṣā'id. The Qaṣā'id of the Arabic language was these long lines of poems, sometimes in the hundreds Right? One after the other after the other. And he was doing an analysis of how they're organized, how the poetry of the ancient Arabs was organized because it's all oral tradition, right? And when it's oral tradition, your spontaneously just dropping rhymes: cat, hat, bat and rat. Maybe there's no no you know rhyme or reason to it, except that it rhymes. But he discovered that there's actually some pretty interesting organization to it until he said, well, if I'm studying Arabic poetry might as well study religious poetry and religious poetry to him was Qur'an. He's not looking at Qur'an as a sacred book. He's looking at it as well, I see how the Qur'an also has rhymes, just like poetry has rhymes. So I'm going to look at how the Qur'an is organized and how how it talks about this stuff. And as he does it, it dawns on him that the Qur'an has a level of sophistication in the way it's organized that he's never seen before. Now this is a professor in Georgetown and no contact with necessarily the Muslim community. He studied Arabic pretty exhaustively, and as a result of that study alone, he became Muslim. He took shahāda just from that study. And when I met with him and sat down with him, his Arabic is incredible, by the way. It's so cool that he's teaching Arabic to Arab students, Kuwaiti students, he's teaching them advanced poetry. Mr. you know Mr. Blond Guy over teaches them poetry, and they say, ما للعرب يتعلم العربية من إمريكيّ! They say it sometimes, some of the students say, what's wrong with us Arabs? We're learning Arabic from an American. And he responds, he says to them okay, you can we can do the other way around. You know, you can learn English or you learn English from Arabs. So it's okay. You can learn Arabic from Americans too, it's cool. But in any case, when I was sitting and talking to him, it was just oozing out of him, discussing his book, Yeah, I'm working on Surah Ar-Rahman God, I mean, it's just obvious, isn't it? It's just God, It's just God. That's the fourth argument, case studies. That's not what we're going to do today. That's what we're gonna do the rest of this weekend. Case study, after case study, after case study organized in a certain way and at the end of today's session, I'm going to give you the organization. How am I organizing these case studies that we're going to look at? So we're going to be going through quite a bit of Qur'an over the weekend, different examples of different kinds of coherence and organization and connectivity, and they're going to be organized by sections, and I'm going to explain those sections to you when it comes. So anyway, let's see if you were paying attention. What are the four kinds of arguments that are going to be made for the organization of the Qur'an? Historical, good, textual, spiritual and then case studies. Right? So we're looking at historical now, so I'm going to present the arguments against the divine order of the Qur'an. 'Izz al-Dīn ibn 'Abd as-Salām Uh, رحمه الله essentially argued in the 12th century he argued the Qur'an came in a variety of contexts, obviously على مُكثٍ particular occasions the Ayah came, and because it came in a variety of contexts, there was no assumption, there shouldn't be any assumption that the Ayah that came in the third year should be connected to the Ayah right after it, which came in the fifth year. And to make the connection between these two Ayat is you going out of your way and doing something the hypothesis for which is very weak because they're talking about two different incidents, so that doesn't make any sense. Just accept the fact that they're not connected. Attempting to do so would be based on a flimsy hypothesis. This was his view. in response al-Biqāʿī quoted his own teachers. So this was the person I mentioned to you was ʿIzz al-Dīn ibn ʿAbd as-Salām. His teacher is Aḥmad al-Manfalūṭī, and I'm translating his commentary here. Um, when I tell you what he says, he says those who said that we should not seek after the contextual connections, Munasabat they're called by the way the term used is munāsaba munāsaba means how are Ayat connected to each other. Okay, so those who argue that we shouldn't look for Munasabat are mistaken. The reality of the matter is that the revelation was in accordance with events, but their order meaning the final order in which we find them now is in accordance with Divine wisdom. Ḥikma. since the muṣḥaf, meaning the copy of the Qur'an in our hands, is in agreement with the concealed 'Kitāb Makūnn' meaning what we're reciting right now is the same as what Allah has in 'al-Lawh al-Maḥfūẓ', the Guarded Tablet in the Heavens. It's the same thing. The order must be the same. He He then goes on to argue he gives kind of an example to help his students understand the concept. There are two kinds of orders of Qur'an. There's the historical order and there's the order we have, he says look, when somebody comes to a 'alim and says, hey can you help me understand this issue of inheritance? And then somebody else comes and says, can you help me understand this issue of divorce? And somebody else comes in and says, Can you help me understand this issue of, you know, uh, halal meat? What can I eat? What can't I eat? Somebody else comes in and asks the issue of marriage or whatever. People are coming with different issues, right? The scholar is going to quote the same parts of the Qur'an or different parts of the Qur'an? He's going to quote whatever the question is, he's going to quote this, this, this. So the Qur'an is coming and addressing this. But when that same scholar sits down to recite the Qur'an does he say, I'm only going to recite the Ayats of divorce? And I'm only going to recite the Ayat of marriage, and I'm only going to recite the Ayat of the Akhira. No, he's going to recite from Fatiha and go through Baqara and go through Āl ʿImrān, you understand? So his engagement with the book when he's serving people is different and his engagement with the book and he's reciting the book is different. They're two different things, and that's how he wanted his students to appreciate the difference between those two. Then there's the more difficult argument the argument is, and this argument is held by Imām Mālik and Qāḍī Abū ūBakr ibn al-Faris alluded to it in his in his writings that actually there's record that different companions had written copies of the Qur'an, their own personal written copies of the Qur'an and different ones were in different order. Okay, so now you have companions of the Prophet رضي الله عنهم أجمعين who have Qur'an of their own, they've written it out. Most companions don't have the Qur'an written out. Very few are capable of writing anyway, because the nation is essentially al-ummieen هُوَ الَّذِي بَعَثَ فِي الْأُمِّيِّينَ رَسُولًا مِّنْهُم so very few are capable of writing to begin with and even fewer among them have actually a written copy of the Qur'an. So listen to this فهذا مصحف ابي بن كعب
There's a copy of the Qur'an written by Ubay ibn Ka'ab one of the companions of the Prophet روى انه كان مبدوء بالفاتحة ثم البقرة ثم النساء ثم آل عمران ثم الانعام So the Mushaf of Ubay ibn Ka'ab is as follows, Baqara which I'll give you the numbers. The numbers are first names are Fatiha, Baqara, Nisa, Āl Imran, An'am. According to the order we have right now, that would be 1, 2, 4, 3, 6 instead of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 the initial sequence for him is 1, 2, 3, 4, 6. It's a different order or no? That's very different. That's Ubay ibn Ka'ab. You go to another companion,
هذا مصحف ابن مسعود ابن مسعود رضي الله تعالى عنه كان مبدوء بالبقرة his Qur'an begins with al-Baqara For him Baqara is Surah number one there's no Fatiha. In his written copy of Qur'an, there's Fatiha ثم النساء Right after Baqara, what's there? Surah an-Nisa, the 4th Surah. So it starts with two, then goes to four ثم آل عمران and then he goes to Āl 'Imran and actually at the end, interestingly, how many Surahs in the Qur'an? 114 but he's already got 113 because what did he skip out? He doesn't count Fatiha or he doesn't write it in. And actually, the last two Surahs, you know, Falaq and Nas? They're not in his Mushaf. There is no Falaq and no Nas. They're not included in his Mushaf. So they're two Surahs short. So he's got three Surahs out, from the Qur'an in the copy of Ibn Mas'ud. That's an argument. هذا مصحف علي
Then there's the copy of who? What name did you hear? 'Ali رضي الله عنه. كان مرتبا على النزول فاوله اقرأ ثم المدثر ثم ق ثم المزمل ثم تبّت ثم التكوير And he organized it the way he understood the revelation order to be. So the first Surah in his copy of Qur'an  is Surah number 96: اقْرَأْ بِاسْمِ رَبِّكَ الَّذِي خَلَقَ The second Surah is 74 The third Surah for him is Qaf, which is Surah 50. So we've got 96, 74, 50 then 111 and then 81. And then so on and so forth. We don't have these copies, by the way. We have record that this is what they had, but we don't have these copies. Okay? Now this argument that they had these different organizations of the Qur'an I'm going to read some of the responses classically to the position that says, well, actually, before I respond, respond You could see how there could be a view that says, the reason we have the Qur'an in this order is because the companions got together and decided this should be the order, so that doesn't have to do with Allah, it just has to do with the consensus of the companions. Anyone know the Arabic term for that? Ijmā' as-Sahaba, right? Ijmā'. Ijma means it's not from revelation it's not from the wisdom of Allah It's a decision of a bunch of people coming together and saying, Look, this should be the order. If you look at the evidences I presented to you thus far and then you say, Well, the final version that we have Fatiha is 1, Nas is 114 and everything in between, seems to be a result of what? Consensus of the companions, not because of Allah's decree but consensus of the companions. So here are some responses. و يمكن ان يناقش هذا المذهب بالاحاديث الدالة على التوقيف First, you could respond that this the counter argument to this could be made by sayings of the Prophet himself. صَلَّى ٱللّٰهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ‎ and we're going to come to some things of the Prophet (ﷺ) that allude to the idea that there is heavenly sequence in the Qur'an. Okay, so that's the first response. في الاحتجاج للقول الثانى و يمكن أيضا مناقشة دليلهم بالاول باحتمال ان الاختلاف من خالف من الصحابة في الترتيب انما قبل علمهم بالتوقيف It could very well be that the companions that were compiling the Qur'an and writing them out, were not aware of the final order as it's supposed to be. It's not like they had a word document, guys. It's not like when they had this file, Oh, wait, the Prophet (ﷺ) finally said, This one should be here, and this one should be there. They could just cut, insert page, paste. They can't do that. It's written by hand, and it's not like they can just go get new paper from Staples or OfficeMax or paper is impossible to get. And writing is an exhaustive process, you understand. So once they have it, they have it. That's it. That's all they have. So the fact that they have it in whatever order they were able to get it it is not because that's necessarily how they understood the Divine order to be, But this is their personal attempt together. Whatever they could gather, they gathered. And so that doesn't necessarily represent a counter view. أو كان في خصوص ما لم يرد فيه توقيف دون ما ورد فيه Then there was also an opinion that some Surahs are definitely in heavenly order. Some Surahs are definitely in divine order, but other Surahs? Maybe not. okay. And that also came from ḥadīth. That view because the Prophet ﷺ   talked about the order of certain Surahs but he didn't talk about the order of all Surahs. So they said, well, the ones that the Prophet talked about ﷺ well, those must definitely be in heavenly order, but the ones he didn't talk about, well there may be some room, and we'll see a counter argument to that, too. Why? Because, for example, I'm getting ahead of myself but here's a ḥadīth: إقرأ الزهراوين البقرة وآل عمران Recite the two glowing Surahs, Baqara and Ali 'Imran. Did the Prophet give the same order that we find in the Qur'an today? Baqara then Āl 'Imran. Did you hear of companions that I just mentioned that had the order other than Baqara then Ali 'Imran? You did. So to say, Well, no, we're only gonna accept heavenly order for which the Prophet (ﷺ ) says is heavenly order but others we won't accept. Well that's already there's already a contradiction because some Sahaba have a different sequence than the Prophet's teaching. It could very well be that the Sahabi hears that the, you know, the Prophet ﷺ Say, recite these two Surahs Baqara and Āl 'Imran. But he's already got a written copy, which has what first? Ali 'Imran first, Baqara later. It could be. But that means he understands that that's not supposed to be the official. But that's the written record that he has. He's not insisting that that's from Allah, but that's just a copy that he has. Okay, and similarly حديث سعيد ابن خالد قرأ رسول الله ﷺ بالسبع الطوال في ركعة The Prophet ﷺ  used to recite the seven first, long Surahs Baqara Āl 'Imran Nisa Ma'ida An'am 'Araf Anfal and some included Anfal and Tawbah together as one. Seven. He used to recite them in one rak'ah sometimes when he's reciting them in the prayer, isn't that heavenly order by itself? ﷺ

That's Divine by itself. Salah in two minutes. Okay, so I'm gonna finish one more Hadith inshallah and give you your first break. Uh, and similarly, روى البخاري عن ابن مسعود انه قال ﷺ في بني إسرائيل والكهف ومريم وطه والانبياء The Prophet ﷺ  was once talking about Surah number seventeen, Bani Isra'eel and Kahf eighteen, and Maryam nineteen and and Taha twenty and al-Anbiya which is twenty-one. This is the order of them in the Mushaf. And he says,
انهن من العتاق الاول و هن من تلادي these are the protective Surahs, and they are part of the inheritance that I've been given. I've inherited these Surahs. When the Prophet ﷺ mentions these Surahs he mentions them in this order. And this is the exact order they are in the Qur'an. So the Prophet ﷺ  in some cases is referring to the orders as they are and the last example of them is كان اذا أوى الى فراشه كل ليلة every night when the Prophet ﷺ  would lie down on his bed جمع كفيه
He used to gather his hands together ثم نفث فيهما Then he would blow into them فقرأ قل هو الله أحد والمعوذتين He would recite 'Qul Huwa Allāhu Aḥad, قل أعوذ برب الفلق and
قل أعوذ برب الناس which would be three Surahs in order at the end, the last three Surahs of Qur'an in that exact order. So this is the Hadith evidence that the Prophet himself ﷺ  is observing the order of Surahs, and he's observing them in a certain sequence. Okay uh, there are other counter arguments that we'll get into, and there's a third argument against the sequence of the Qur'an that I'll get into, but we're going to pray first inshallah ta'ala come back and continue. بارك الله لي ولكم السلام عليكم ورحمة الله و بركاته اَلْحَمْدُ لِلَّٰهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينِ وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى سَيِّدِ الْأَنْبِيَاءِ وَالْمُرْسَلِينِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ أَجمَعِين
اَمَّا بَعْدُ So so far in the arguments that have been presented, the last argument that I shared with you about the companions having their own orders, the simple response, the way to think about that is that in in a couple of cases, these are the personal projects they're compiling whatever they have of the Qur'an on their own, making an attempt to keep it for themselves, not necessarily because they believe this is the order in which Allah wants it to be. Okay, so that's essentially the point being made here. Argument number three is interesting. Ibn Ashta talks about it and he reports it from Abu Mohammed ar-Raqshi أمرهم عثمان ان يتابعوا الطوال this is you know Uthman r.a. was in charge of compiling the Qur'an in the end, like to gather all the copies and make the official version, right. So that's what he's talking about here. أمرهم عثمان ان يتابعوا الطوال that Uthman r.a. commanded them that they should follow the Surahs فجعل سورة الأنفال و سورة الطوبة في السبع he included the 8th and the 9th Surah in the order as part of the seven long ones. Let me explain these numbers because they can get a little confusing. Leave the Fatiha alone because it's not a long Surah. So one of the terms the companions use is
السبع الطوال  the seven long ones. Now, what are the seven long ones? Baqara, Āl ‘Imran, Nisa, Ma’ida that's four An’am 'Araf that's five and six and then Anfal that would be seven. But Uthman said, include Tawbah as part of number seven, but that would make it eight, right? So he's including Anfal and Tawbah as one Surah. That's what he says. Its it felt to them that he's making it one Surah and why did they feel that way?
و لم يفصل بينهما ببسم الله الرحمن الرحيم The reason they felt it's like one Surah is because there's no gap between them. How do you gap between one Surah to the next? بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم and Tawbah the ninth Surah does not have a bismillah, so they felt like he's almost making us think like the eighth Surah and the ninth Surah one big Surah. And so, لعله يشير بهذا الى ما رواه احمد والترمذي والنسائي ابن حبان وحاكم ابن ابي عباس Lots of narrators account for the same quote that comes from Ibn 'Abbas r.a. on this issue. Ibn 'Abbas r.a. went and Uthman and asked What's going on? Why did you do that? Why didn't you put the Basmallah here? What's up with that? فقلت لي عثمان ما حملكم  على ان عمدتم الى الانفال وهي من المثاني و الى البرء وهي من المئين What what made you what committed you to combine An-fal, which is from the first group of seven, They're called al-Mathani also that's another name for the السبع الطوال and you combine Tawbah as part of the same group which is from mi'in, mi'in means Surahs that have over 100 Ayat they had a name for that. That name was mi'in. Of course, what does mi'ah mean? A hundred. So Mi'in the groups of Surahs that have over 100. So Ibn 'Abbas is asking how come you took a Surah from the Mi'in group, which is Tawbah and you dumped it into the Mathani group which is, you know, Anfal; why did you combine them? And he asked Uthman this question. فقرنتم بينهما و لم تكتب بينهما ستر بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم And you combine the two you didn't even put a Bismillah in between the two of them. و وضعتموها في السبع الطوال as though you put them in the seven long ones. فقال عثمان رضي الله عنه كان رسول الله ﷺ تنزل عليه السورة ذوات العدد The Rasul ﷺ the Surahs used to come to him in multiple numbers, meaning multiple Surahs were coming to him at the same time. Part of Tawbah is coming or part of Baqara is coming, while some parts of Āl 'Imran also came or it's not like one Surah was completely revealed then the next Surah came down. So there are, you can say, multiple incomplete projects in the heart of Rasullah ﷺ . And as these Ayat are coming فكان اذا انزل عليه شيء دعا بعض من يكتب فيقول ضعوا هذه الايات في السورة التي يذكر فيها كذا يذكر فيها كذا و كذا The Prophet ﷺ would say, These Ayat just came to me, put them this Surah that has this this subject put those over here between these Ayat and the Ayat like this is an exhaustive editorial process that is being done by a man who does not read or write ﷺ and he's got multiple Surahs. There's altogether 114. Imagine at one point there are 50 or 60 incomplete Surahs and an Ayah comes and he knows which Surah it goes to and between which Ayat, or after which Ayat, or before which Ayat. And he's instructing, these belong here. Those belong there. Those belong there. Subhanallah This is the memory of the Prophet ﷺ  that Allah expanded for him. The heart that Allah opened for Qur'an for him. In any case, وكانت الانفال من اوائل من نزل بالمدينة Uthman is still talking, and he says, Surah Anfal as we have it is one of the earliest that was revealed in Medina. when the Prophet migrated to Medina. One of the earliest Surahs that came was the 8th Surah that we have now in the Mushaf order. And that's Surah Anfal, of course, if you don't know Surah Anfal deals with the battle of Badr, which is the first major conflict in Medina when we moved there right and it deals with the on goings of Medina and what to do after the spoils of war. Six months in, we're in that in that trouble six months in, we're already already well on our way into the battle of Badr. So it's an early early Madani Surah and he says

And the Surah Barā'a, the ninth Sura, is one of the last Surahs to be revealed in the Qur'an. Why? Because the ninth Surah, if you didn't know deals with the Makkah has already been conquered. And the Romans are actually on the verge of attacking us, and we're going to go after them. And now those who are still fighting against Islam, the outliers that are still fighting against Islam in the region. How do you deal with them? How do you deal with those who committed crimes against the Prophet ﷺ ? This is basically the wrap-up, the clean up the trash kind of Surah. You know, the, uh, sealing the deal in the life of the Prophet ﷺ. One of the last Surahs to be revealed, the two last Surahs of the Qur'an sequentially. Not in the order that we have now. Historically, are Ma'ida and Tawbah they're the two very, very end of sīrah Surahs. If you want to know what was going on in the Prophet's life at the very end of his career as a messenger ﷺ , the fifth Surah and the ninth Surah are very telling. If another time we have an opportunity, I'll share with you why those two Surahs almost represent polar opposite messages, and why that's really important to understand. They're coming around the same time and yet they seem to be giving two very different messages. One is talking about fighting and punishing and the other's talking about cooperating and eating with people. And they seem to be going in two opposite directions yet they're revealed around the same time, so that's an interesting discussion by itself. But not for now. We're not discussing that in this seminar. و كانت قصتها شبيهة بقصتها He says, well Anfal was about the Battle of Badr, and Tawbah is about also engaging them in war. So they seem to be similar subject matter
فظننت انها منها So I thought that they are so similar maybe they're one Surah. فقبض رسول الله ﷺ و لم يبيلنا انها منها And the Prophet ﷺ  was taken before I could ask him. And he never told us that these are two Surahs or one Surah or what. We just know that there's no Bismillah, that's all. When there's no Bismillah, I'm starting to think maybe they're one Surah. Is that necessarily the case, by the way? No, he's just saying, my mind went that way, but it might look that way. But I know there's no Basmala and the Prophet never said otherwise. So we don't even Sahaba aren't explicit are they explicitly clear or they're not clear? They're not clear on the subject. And, of course, it seems as though Ibn 'Abbas is clear that they are two separate Surahs and Uthman because of the missing Basmala is assuming that they are one Surah, right? So that's that's going on. فمن اجل ذلك قرنت بينهما and because of that purpose I combined the two of them. ولم اكتب بينهما ستربسم الله الرحمن الرحيم And that's why I didn't put a Bismillah Rahman Rahim between them, and I included them among the seven long ones. Now, those who use this to say, Well, this is a counter argument against the heavenly order of the Qur'an. It's not at all. There's nothing about the order here. The order would still be 8th and 9th. The only discussion is, are they one Surah or not? That's really the only discussion. The discussion wasn't about whether or not it's heavenly order and even placing them in the sequence even if you were to consider it part of the argument it's so specific to two Surahs and the complication that arises from not having Bismillah in one of them, but really has nothing to do with anything else in in, uh, the case made that the order is from Allah. So I'm going to switch gears now and talk to you about what is in favor. Historically, the historical arguments not against heavenly order, but historical arguments in favor of heavenly order. Okay, what are those arguments? أبو جعفر النحاس قال المختار
this is not an evidence this is just the introduction to the subject. ان التأليف السور على هذا الترتيب
من رسول الله ﷺ Abu J'afar an-Nuhas says this sequence is from the messenger of Allah. لحديث واصلة أعطيت مكان التوراة السبع الطوال Like, for example, there's so many Hadith, like the one where he says, instead of Torah, I was given the seven long ones in place of the Torah our Qur'an has the seven long ones وكذلك انتصر ابو بكر الانباري لهذا المذهب Abu Bakr al-Anbari also held that view أنزل القرآن الى السماء الدنيا that Allah sent down Qur'an to the first, lowest sky ثم فرّقه في بضع و عشرين سنة And then He revealed it little by little over 23 years. فكانت السورة التنزيل لامر يحدث والآية جواب لمستخبر that the Surah would come for whatever issue arises or an Ayah would come only about a question that was asked, right. And then he says, ويقف جبريل جبريل عليه الصلاة والسلام على موضع السورة والآيات والحروف and Jibril (عليه السلام) would be committed to make sure that the Ayat and the Surah down to the Huruf, Qaf, Noon, Alif, Lam, Mim, they should go where they should go. Jibril was making sure the order should remain as it is in the heavens, not the order in which the issues were being resolved. كلّه من النبي ﷺ فمن قدّم سورة وأخّرها أفسد نظم القرآن He says that this is the order in which it is in the heavens and whoever tries to put a later Surah earlier and earlier Surah later, and say that that's how it's fine, it doesn't make a difference, has corrupted the organization of the Qur'an. This is a classical position أخرج ابن الشتاه في كتاب المصاحف من طريق ابن وهب عن سليمان بن بلال قال سمعت ربيع يسال this is lots of names, so I'll skip the names and get to لم قدمت البقرة he was asked, Bilal was asked or Rabi'a was asking, how come Baqara was placed before Ali 'Imran? وقد انزل قبلهما بضع و ثمانون سورة بمكة some eighty some Surahs were already given from Makkah. Why is Baqara in the beginning? I get Fatiha is in the beginning? Why is Baqara in the beginning? And so the answer was و انما انزلة بالمدينة
And these were Surahs revealed in Medina Why aren't they at the end? So the question the companion is asking is, why aren't they in chronological order? And so the answer قدمتا ألّف القرآن على علم ممن ألّف به they were placed earlier and the Qur'an was authored in this way by in accordance with the knowledge of its Author. Meaning who did this? Allah الى قال فهذا مما ينتهي اليه و لا ينتهى اليه ولا يسال عنه And this is something that we know it's not up for discussion. Essentially, he's saying this isn't up for discussion. Why is this Surah here? Why is that one there? Why is this out for? Why is Ma'ida five? you know? And then why is Kahf 18? And why is Maryam 19? I like Maryam sooner. That's not up for discussion, just like it's not up for discussion why is that الحمد لله رب العالمين first? Why is  الرحمٰن الرحيم second? that's not up for discussion. That's Allah decided it. So he's looking at the order of Surahs the same way he looks at the order of the Ayat. I haven't given you evidence yet I'm just giving you the sentiments right now. Imam Hamīd al-Dīn Farahi, whose I'm a huge fan of and I have a crush on because he has he's like, have an intellectual crush on this man because he has some of the most remarkable insights. But sometimes he speaks really offensively. But that's okay because he's a boss, so he can talk like that. I can't talk like that. But I can quote him and feel better about myself. So that's what I'm going to do. okay و اما نظم القرآن من حيث انه على ما ترتيب كان في عهد النبي ﷺ فهو امر لا يشك فيه الا من جهل بالتاريخ He says, Look, as far as the Qur'an being exactly as it was meant to be from the time of the Prophet ﷺ this is an issue in which there is absolutely no room nobody can doubt in this except someone who doesn't know history except somebody who's ignorant of history. من جهل بالتاريخ فان السور كلها كانت تقرأ في الصلاة في عهد النبي ﷺ و بلغ هذا حد التواتر All of the Surahs in this order used to be recited in the Qur'an in the prayer in the time of the Prophet ﷺ. And that is coming to us from multiple chains of narration. You know, in the counter arguments is one companion who has this order one view here, and he says on the counter side, you've got multiple people corroborating that Qur'an is being recited in this exact order in the prayer which is in itself sacred. و انما يشك من يشك في ترتيب السور لا آياتها And by the way, anybody who does have doubt always only has doubt about the organization of Surahs. Never about the organization of Ayat like that if there is an issue, it's about the Surahs, but not about the Ayat. هل هو كان في عهد النبي ام رتّبه الجامعون للقرآن Was that from the time of the Prophet? Was it under his command? Or is it something that later on compilers put together? و الصحيح الثابت
and the correct view the established view is ان ترتيب سور القرآن ايضا من عند الله that the organization of Surahs of the Quran is also from Allah Himself و جاء به جبريل و علمهن به This is what Jibril brought and this is what he taught the Prophet ﷺ و هو علّمه الصحابة كما عُلّم And he taught the companions the way he learned himself the way he was taught himself. This is now their view. But what about the argument itself? Let's get to argument number one. و استدلّ أصحاب هذا الرأي بأن الصحاب اجمع على المصحف الذي كان الذي كتب في عهد عثمان و لم يخالف منهم احد Look, if you believe the order of the Qur'an by Allah is a different one according to Allah, the order is a different one when Uthman radi'allahu 'anhu puts the Quran in this order, is that a small issue or a big issue to the Sahaba? That's a major issue. These are people who don't do a single thing that they're not sure about. If it has to do with Islam, they want to make sure it's actually from Allah, It's from the Prophet ﷺ or is this something you came up with? They are very careful about that. So much so that Abu Bakr as-Siddiq was even nervous about writing anything about the Qur'an down because the book form was not in the time of the Prophet ﷺ I mean, even though the Huffāẓ were being killed, there is a necessity to preserve the Qur'an. He is still not willing to do it. Why? Because they're too careful about anything to do with Qur'an. We don't want to make anything up about the Qur'an that wasn't there. It wasn't on paper. How can we put it on paper? That was that was a concern. This is the level of sensitivity the companions have, he argues. The fact that nobody raised an issue, When the Qur'an was organized in this way nobody said, this is wrong it's not supposed to be this way. And even those who had, you remember people have different sequences? They all burned their copies. They all destroyed their copies willingly. The one who presented some reluctance and wanted to hold onto his copy was even Ibn Mas'ud, and even he actually burned his copy. If he believed that to be from Allah Himself, would he burn his own copy? Nope. و لم يخالف منهم احد و اجمعهم لا يتم الا اذا كان ترتيب الذي اجمع عليه ان توقيف They couldn't possibly have agreed on this unless they all knew that it's Divine. Now here's the other thing. I need you to understand this. You see, There's a 114 Surahs. How many different sequences are possible? 114 times 113 times 112 times, you see what you see, what I'm doing? This is how many sequences are possible. Okay. Are the companions all at the same level of understanding of Qur'an? Are all of them at the same level of knowledge of Qur'an? Is it possible if you have a 100,000 companions if you have 10,000 to 100,000 companions, that there are 100,000 variations? Is that possible? Is this originally a written record or a memorized record? Memory can fail you, right? Memory can fail you. And are these people on WhatsApp groups or text messaging? Or are they on the same Facebook page? Are they Do they have a synchronized iCloud document of the Qur'an that they're all referring to? Or where is the Qur'an? As far as these people are concerned, it's in their hearts. Human memory. Human memory can fail. Yes or no? Somebody could become unsure. Was this Surah first or that one later? Yes or no? Are they in constant daily communication with with each other? No. Some of them could be days days travel away. Somebody could be months travel away, aren't they? And now they're traveling. They're all over the place, and Qur'an is spreading and spreading without an iCloud without a sync, without a website, without a server you can go back and refer to, without a Qur'an dot com without nothing. The only reference the only the only hard drive that contains the Qur'an are the soft hearts. That's all. If an oral tradition spreads, isn't there isn't it logical to say there are hundreds of thousands of variations possible? Isn't that logical? How many variations that are on record on record? The only ones on record are the ones that are written right? But there should have been hundreds of examples of alternative orders of the Koran all over the world. Within one generation, it should have been the case within one generation. There should have been a disagreement. Was this Ayah even there? Was this Surah after this one or that one? The fact that you don't find that the fact that you don't even have a debate, why why did you put Surah Tawbah as Surah number nine? Why did you put you know Al-Hijr as 15? Why shouldn't An-Nahl be 15? The fact that the Sahaba are not debating this is the same reason you don't find the Sahaba debating, How come there are three rak'as in maghrib? How come there's only two rak'as in jumu'a? Do they have those debates? No. Why? When the Sahaba want everything to be clear about their religion and they ask about everything, why don't you find them asking questions about certain things? you don't ask them they don't ask questions about certain things because those things are clear as day from the time of the Prophet ﷺ. Everybody's on the same page that it's from Allah. The argument here is the fact that few exceptions are found in and of itself is an overwhelming proof that they're all on the same page. This is heavenly order. They could only have agreed in such overwhelming number because it's heavenly order because we're talking about the most sensitive document to the Muslim the Qur'an itself. If there was ever anything that there should have been debate over if you think there's a debate over Hadith, there should be a million times more debate over every single Surah of the Qur'an. The fact that it doesn't exist in itself becomes a proof. And so they say, و رجعو الى مصحف عثمان و ترتيبه جميعا ثم ساقوا روايات لمذهبهم كأدلة يستند اليه الاجماع This is how ijma' of the companions was formed. The argument here that I'd like to basically present to you is that yes, the companions agreed that Qur'an should be in this order, but they only agreed because they were all clear that it's heavenly order. Otherwise, they couldn't possibly have agreed. That couldn't have happened. Okay, now argument number two. This is a Hadith of the Prophet ﷺ Uh, there's man ابو داود عن حظيف الثقف قال كنت في الوفد الذين اسلموا من ثقيف I was among the delegation that became Muslim. That came from the tribe of the Thaqif. and when he came to the Prophet ﷺ we came to meet him, but the Prophet didn't want to come out like he was still in in his camp and he wasn't coming out to meet them. When he did come out he said, طرأ عليّ حزب من القرآن He said a portion of the Qur'an dawned on me. I'm Hizb a proportion. Okay. The Prophet says a portion of the Qur'an dawned on me like it overwhelmed me. And so, فاردت الا أخرج حتى أقدره I didn't want to come out until I finished reciting the entire portion. There is a sort of Koran. No, he said what? A portion of Quran and the Arabic term for that was what? Hizb. Okay. They've never heard this before. They've heard Ayah. They've heard Surah. And now for the first time, they're hearing what? Hizb. فسالنا أصحاب رسول الله ﷺ These are new Muslims. And so they asked the other companions, uh, كيف تحزبون القران How do you portion the Qur'an? How do you make Hizb of the Qur'an? So they responded. Now this is multiple companions responding. Now نحزبه ثلاث سورو خمس سور و سبع سور و تسع سور و احدى عشرة سور و ثلاث عشرة سور وحزب مفصّل من ق حتى نختم um, We portion the Qur'an into seven portions. The first portion is three Surahs. The portion after that is five Surahs. The portion after that is seven Surahs. Let me start over. The first portion is what second one, third one fourth one, good nine fith one eleven. This is fourth grade. Yeah. Sixth one 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13. And then we get to the short Surahs from Qaf to the end. That's 65 Surahs which is a multiple of 13 Okay, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 65. And by the way, in the beginning of all of that is what Surah? Fatiha. So we're talking about 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 65. Add those up. You got 114. Is that a remarkable mathematical structure? 1/7th of the Koran is three Surahs. The next seventh of the Koran is 5 Surahs The next seventh is nine, the next seventh is 11 and this from the time of Sahaba. This is from an oral tradition Does that seemed remarkably structured? And this is something who alluded to himself ﷺ Rasulallah He says, one portion dawned on me. I wanted to finish the seventh. You may have heard the Sahaba used to recite 1/7th of the Koran a day, finish the entire recitation of the Koran in a week. This is how The 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 and then 65. Okay, This in and of itself is a pretty remarkable statement. And for an oral tradition, to be structured in this way in this mathematically nuanced way is it's a really remarkable thing. It's kind of baffling that this existed from that time. So, in any case, now There are some some week, some lighter arguments that have been mentioned, that I will, and I'll add my final argument to the historical because we have other evidences to go through because we're just, we're actually in the weakest section of this. The thing that convinces myself of the compilation of the Koran being from Allah. The weakest of the arguments are the historical ones. As the arguments progress. What were the other arguments? I forgot. Can you remind me? textual, spiritual as they go from from historical to textual, I become more convinced when they go from textual to spiritual I'm really convinced. when they go from spiritual, the case studies, I'm like subhanallah okay I'm done I'm finished. Heavenly order. I'm good. Okay, but we're starting from the the where there is room for debate as far as my mind is concerned. Okay. Now, one argument that was presented by some classical scholars really interesting argument was if the Koran was in the order of the minds of the companions, they would have taken all the Alif Laam Mims put them together. They would have taken all Ta Sin Mims, put them together, but there's a Ta Sin Mim then there's a Ta Sin and then there's a Ta Sin Mim no the Ta Sin should have been in the beginning, then the other two Ta Sin Mims Let's progress the letters. If all the Musabbihat they are called the Musabbihat, Sabbah lillahi and Yusabbihu lillahi Surahs, they are the Madani Surahs They begin with either declaring the perfection of Allah in the past or the present. But in the middle of them, you find Surah Mujadila which doesn't have Tasbih You have Mumtahina you have Munafiqin Munafiqun You have Surahs that break that, they should have been pushed to the end, not mixed in the middle. It doesn't seem like human beings the way they organize things Oh, this this has similar beginning. This has similar ending. This has similar subject. Let's bunch them all together. Qur'an didn't do that. So he says, The fact that you don't find apparently logical order itself means human logic wasn't involved. The fact because there can only be something beyond human logic, it has to be divine logic. You get the argument? because otherwise it would have been very obvious human logic. Let's put these two Surahs together. Let's put those those four together. But that just simply wasn't the case. It actually takes a deciphering to figure out what the order is doing.
