السلام عليكم ورحمة الله وبركاته الحمد لله رب العالمين والصلاة والسلام على أشرف الأنبياء والمرسلين وعلى آله وصحبه ومن استن بسنته إلى يوم الدين اللهم اجعلنا منهم ومن الذين آمنوا وعملوا الصالحات وتواصوا بالحق وتواصوا بالصبر آمين يا رب العالمين ثم أما بعد Uh, in the beginning, the Divine Speech program is broken up into two parts. So today and tomorrow. Today's agenda is basically what I like to call micro studies. Micro studies. and tomorrow's agenda is macro studies. Now that's technical terms. So let's make that easier to understand. Micro means we're going to try to understand some things about the aayah of the Quran or how Allah uses certain kinds of words. Or how Allah uses things at the very small, you know, zoomed in, or kind of, take a microscope and put it to the Quran and look at a very zoomed in view of how the Quran is structured. Tomorrow we're going to look at the Quran in a different way. We're gonna kind of take a look, take a step back and look at the bigger picture. We're going to look at how the surah is organized. How the stories are spread all over the Quran. Why does Allah take oaths in the Quran. How come Allah repeats Himself so much in the Quran? Bigger picture questions. So those are two different kinds of views. You know, I like to compare it to when you're in a garden. If you're sitting in a garden somewhere and you're staring at a flower, then you're zooming in. You take your camera and you zoom in and you're kind of taking this close up shot of the camera. But when you do that, you lose sight of the fact that you're in the middle of a valley and there are other trees and rivers and everything else because you're so focused on the beauty of one flower. But when you're flying over in a helicopter or an airplane or you're standing on top of the mountain looking down, you see a different kind of beauty. The beauty is of the entire scene, you understand? So there's two different kinds of beauty. Beauty when you pay attention at the micro level, when you zoom in. And beauty when you take a step back and you look at the bigger picture. That is how this course is divided. This survey study is divided. The divisions that are here in this course, the sections that, inshaa'Allah, I will try to discuss with you are not sections I learned from a book or that I got from a particular source. I know a number of you are going to have questions about, where did you get this stuff from? The bibliography is pretty long. The sources and the research is actually over a number of years, from maybe 50 different sources and, inshaa'Allah, for those of you that are registered, when the course is over, I'll send you a bibliography, anyway. Some sources that were used to compile this stuff. But I also, because this is the introduction, I want to explain some other things to you as well. I don't want to make this an academic lecture. That is not my intention. My intention is not to explain this to you in a scholarly way. First of all, because I'm not a scholar. And second of all, because I don't see the benefit for you. Yesterday I told you, let's see if you remember, yesterday I told you, you have to remember how many things about اَلرَّحْمَان and how many things about اَلرَّحِيْم? Three things about اَلرَّحْمَان and two things about اَلرَّحِيْم. Let's really test your memory now. How many things you got to know? What are the things you have to know about اَلرَّحْمَان? I'm scared. I'm so scared right now. Huh? It's extreme. It is happening right now. What else? It is temporary. Okay, so I said this and somebody sent me a written question. Akhi you said that اَلرَّحْمَان  has three things and اَلرَّحِيْم has two things. What is your evidence? Where did you get this from? Three things and two things. How can you make this up? What's the daleel brother? Now, just bear with me for five minutes, maybe less than five minutes. For the next few minutes you will not understand what I'm saying, but that's okay. اَلرَّحْمَان is on the وَزْن of فَعْلَان. فَعْلَان is called صِيْغَةُ الْمُبَالَغَة صِيْغَةُ الْمُبَالَغَة is the مُبَالَغ  form of an اِسْم فَاعِل أَيْ فَاعِل فَاعِل has حُدُوْث in it. حُدُوْث means it's happening right now. So فَعْلَان is also happening right now. فَعْلَان's صِيْغَةُ المُبَالَغَة the alif and nun at the end is actually one of the strongest forms of مُبَالَغَة. That's why we say the word extreme. The 'ulamaa of sarf, of morphology, say that when you use the فَعْلَان form, then it can be only used for something that is عَابِر that is temporary, that is not going to last. It has حُدُوْث. It has مُبَالَغَة. And it does not last. So if I did that yesterday, there would be people jumping into the lake. You understand? My job. I can. I can explain it that way. That's fine, but that won't benefit you. And as a matter of fact, when I used to be studying these things, it was explained that way. It was explained that way, and it's great for a university. It's great for a scholar, it's great. It's great for a taalibul 'ilm. It's just not great for my cousin. It's not great for my neighbor because they don't understand that. When I say it's three things and two things, it's easy, simple. So my job is to try to present these things and, you know, somebody says, where did you get this from? And I'll point you to a lot of books. I'll give you a bibliography, but when you go to those books. Are they gonna say اَلرّحْمَان has three things and اَلرَّحِيْم has two things? No. There's gonna be a four page discussion on فَعْلَان. Enjoy. You understand? So even though what I'm sharing with you is based on these sources I am not a scholar. I'm a teacher. I'm a teacher by profession. And the job of the teacher is not to give you information. The job of a teacher is to help you understand information. And when you help someone understand information, you have to take complex things and you have to try to make them, what? Simple. You have to make them simple. Eventually, one day you guys will be more advanced in your Arabic and in your tafseer and in your Quran than I am. I make the dua for that. and when you are, then you'll say, this is child's play. Let me read the books. Enjoy. I make the dua for you. I hope you benefit tremendously from that experience. But for now we're gonna take it easy. Is that clear to everybody? So for those of you that came here to take super academic notes, I am sorry to disappoint you. Okay, but for those of you that are students of Deen, maashaa'Allah, we have lots of them. You have huffaaz of Quran, you have students of the Arabic language. Some of you, maashaa'Allah, are even 'ulamaa. You're far more knowledgeable than I am. The one thing you might learn today is how do you take Islamic knowledge that is complicated. And how do you make it, what? Simple. So you're not here to learn something new, except maybe some teaching method that I've experienced from before. What I'm really excited about today, also, I want to share with you. I love divine speech. Where did this seminar come from? This seminar. Actually, I used to teach Arabic and Arabic, as you know, can be a very boring class. So to motivate my students at the end of the Arabic class, which would be a three hour class, three hour class. At the end of the three hours I would give them, hey, hey, hey. Let me share something with you from the Quran. This is why we're learning Arabic. Because the Quran is awesome. Let me give you an example and I will not give that example until the, what? Until the end. So the student who wants to leave early is like, but I want to hear the example, so he stays till the end. And I would do this. I would do one example in the very beginning and one example at the very end. So the guy who comes late misses the beginning. And the guy who is leaving early, misses the end. This is how I ensure attendance in the classroom, you know? So I used to give these examples of what makes the Quran awesome and what makes it beautiful and things like that. And my students loved it. And they said, why don't you just teach a class of just the examples? No Arabic? So they said that enough times, and I compiled enough examples that I might as well turn it into a program. Might as well turn it into a course. This is where this course kind of came from. Those examples. The other thing is when you, when we study the Quran nowadays, we study it, subhanAllah, we study it from the angle of tajweed. We study the Quran from the angle of tafseer. We study the Quran from the angle of 'uloom al-Quran There are different angles from which we study the Quran. But one of the angles that's missing that's actually really important is we don't study the Quran as much, just as literature the Quran just as literature. People study Shakespeare's literature. People study novels, read novels as literature. But people don't think of the Quran as literature. The moment they think of the Quran, they start thinking of some complex discussions and religious discussions and philosophical discussions and academic discussions. But you know, when you do all of those things, you lose sight of the fact that it's something beautiful, that it's beautiful literature. And so the intention behind this program also is to reintroduce the Quran to us, not as something to study the tafseer of necessarily not even to go through the 'uloom al-Quran side of it, even though those things will come up, but rather to look at the Quran as literature. That's what we're gonna do, a literary analysis of the Quran, and I personally believe, because of my experience in the United States, I personally believe this is very important for our times. Here's why. If we do enough work on the Quran as literature. Then we can produce entire bodies of work focusing on this area, and when we do, then the Quran will not only be taught in the religious studies departments and universities all over the world. The Quran can then also be taught in the literature department. The Quran can also be taught where? In the literature department, the World Literature Department and when it is taught in the World Literature Department, you see it's different. When the when the non-Muslims, they study the Quran in the religious programs and the religious studies programs. They study it to criticize it, to attack it, to deconstruct it, to tell you the mistakes in it and all this other stuff they only come out at to criticize it. But when you study something in the literature department, you're not studying it to criticize it. You're studying it to appreciate it. So in other words, we can create an opportunity to study, the world can study the Quran in a way that is not confrontational. It's actually out of curiosity. It changes the conversation about Allah's book entirely. So there's that opportunity as well. Okay. So let's begin bi'idhniLlahi ta'aalaa the first thing I want to talk to you about today. This introduction session is going to be the longest one. This introduction is two parts It's a long introduction and it's two parts. A brief introduction, a literary introduction to the Quran and a brief introduction to Arabic. We need both. A little bit of an introduction to the Quran and a little bit of an introduction to Arabic from the literature perspective. So this is not like 'Uloom al-Quran, it's something else. So let's start with the Quran. The Quran is made up of how many surahs? 114 surahs. AlhamduliLlah you guys know that, okay, 114 surahs. Sometimes people call them 114 chapters. Sometimes they call them 114 chapters. The first thing I want to tell you is a surah is not a chapter. A surah is not a chapter. No such thing. We're going to have to redefine 'surah'. Let's talk about chapters first. When you have chapters in a book, you start from Chapter One. You go to Chapter Two, you go to Chapter Three. You go to Chapter Four. When you go to Chapter Four they will never repeat what they taught you in Chapter what? One. They will not. They will take the concepts that they are already covered in One, Two, and Three and then build that in number Four. Yes? And if they have to remind you of something from Chapter One, what do they do? Refer back to Chapter One. They'll put a footnote in the book and say, go back to page this. Go back to page that, this has already been talked about. We already previously discussed this. See page 81. You see, you see that in books? The idea of chapters is that they build an argument little by little by little chronologically. And the other thing about chapters is if you change the sequence of the chapters. If you take Chapter Ten and you make it Chapter Three And you take Chapter Two and make it Chapter Five, does the book makes sense anymore? No. Is it possible somebody has only studied Surat al-Kawthar and somebody else has studied Surat al-Baqarah, and it may still make sense? Is that possible in the Quran? So it's not like a chapter. From a literature perspective, it's not like a chapter. The other thing about chapters is, especially for something historical, the Quran is historical, the chapters have a certain chronology. The earliest writing is at the beginning, then the later writing, then the later writing, then the later writing. In other words, there should be some kind of order in chapters. Subject order. Chronological order. Is the Quran in chronological order? Is it that the earliest surah is in the beginning, then the later one, then the later one, then the later one. Is it like that? If the Quran was in chronological order, then it would be ٱقۡرَأۡ بِٱسۡمِ رَبِّكَ ٱلَّذِی خَلَقَ
in the beginning. Right? And aayaat of Surat al-Baqarah, some of the aayaat, would be at the very end. It would be a completely different order. So the Quran is not in chronological order. The Quran is not in chapter order. The Quran is not organized by size. If it was by size al-Baqarah would be surah number one. Al-Kawthar would be surah number 114. It's not by size. Oh, I know. Maybe the Quran is organized by subject. It's organized by subject. Is it organized by subject? No. I mean, if you say, what is the subject of Surat al-Baqarah, it is very difficult to answer that question. It's very difficult. Because everything in the Quran is in Surat al-Baqarah. ُلِكُلِّ شَيْءٍ سَنامٌ وسَنامُ الْقُرْآنِ اَلبَقَرَة Everything has a peak. The peak of the Quran is al-Baqarah. All the themes of the Quran are inside al-Baqarah. So you can't even point at Surat al-Baqarah and say, this is the subject of Surah al-Baqarah. You can't do it. As a matter of fact, when you go to a surah like Surat Ibrahim, you can't say, oh, I know what Surat Ibrahim is about. It's about Ibrahim! 'Alayhissalaaam. Uh, no, actually, when you start reading Surat Ibrahim, you're gonna find a lot of things that have nothing to do with Ibrahim 'alayhissalaam. Oh, Surat al-Baqarah it must be 286 aayaat about cows. Does that happen? No. A cow comes up, but there's a lot of things that have nothing to do with beef. You understand? You know, chapters have a title. Usually chapters have a heading, a name. And that name tells you everything about the chapter. Does the Quran do that? No. So it is in my view, اَلله أَعْلَم, it is incorrect from a literature perspective, to call the surah a chapter. It's unique. It's its own entity. There is no other book that has surahs. That's only Quran. Every other book can have chapters, sections. Quran has surahs. In other words Allah from the very beginning set His own standard. You see, when you write an essay and you hand it to your teacher, your teacher corrects it and says, you should break the paragraph over here. You should put the capital letter over here. You should reorganize the subject over here. Take this sentence out. Why? Because there is a standard and you are not meeting the standard. Isn't that true? But the Quran came with its own standard. So you don't, you cannot actually, from the very beginning, I want you to understand this idea, you cannot compare the Quran to any other literature because from the very beginning, the units of any book are chapters and the units of the Quran are surahs. You can't do it. This is the biggest mistake of, you know, non-Muslim scholarship about the Quran. They compare it to other literature and say, well, the Quran, its chapters don't make any sense. It's chapters are unorganized. And I say, Listen, my kaafir friend, these aren't chapters, so you're missing the point altogether. Now, inside the chapter, the surahs are made up of what? What is inside the chapter? Oh sorry, inside the surah? What's inside? Aayah. Now sometimes we translate aayah as what? We translate it as 'verse'. I have a real problem with that too. In the English language, especially in the American context and possibly even the European, the British, the Australian, and other contexts, the word verse is used in two ways. We need to understand these things because they have implications. The word verse is used in two ways. The first way the word verse is used is when you're talking about poetry, verses of a song or verses of a poem. You've heard this before, right? Verses of a song or verses of a poem. This is problematic to call, the aayaat of the Quran to be called verses. It is as though we are comparing the aayaat of the Quran to what? Poetry. the problem with that is the Quran emphatically says وَمَا عَلَّمۡنَـٰهُ ٱلشِّعۡرَ We didn't teach him poetry. وَمَا هُوَ بِقَوۡلِ شَاعِرࣲۚ It is not the word of a poet. وَٱلشُّعَرَاۤءُ یَتَّبِعُهُمُ ٱلۡغَاوُۥنَ Poets, they don't know what they're talking about. and people who have completely, are completely lost, they follow them. In other words, the Quran is very strong in declaring that it has nothing to do with poetry. So when we use the word verse, there's already a problem in the English speaking mind because there's an association with poetry, which is a problem. Here's the second kind of,  so the first thing was it has to do something with poetry or songs. The second issue is that verses usually come up when we talk about verses of the Bible. In the English speaking world, the European world and part of the European world, and, of course, the colonized European world, the Americas, the Australias of the world, etcetera, when we think of verse, we think of verse of the Bible, which is also problematic because when you want people to think about the Quran, we don't want them to think about what? The Bible. As a matter of fact, there are allegations made by Western scholars that the Quran stole its information from the Bible. They say that the Quran, it's information, ma'aadh Allah, the Prophet ﷺ used to travel, used to trade. And he traded in Syria, and he traded in, you know, in different parts, some Christian parts. And he heard some of those stories and he mixed them up and he put them in the Quran. So it's actually taken from the People of the Book. We don't want even to give the hint that it has anything to do with the Bible, actually. because what is left of the Bible is actually something that has been tampered with by human beings. I don't want to give that association at all. And so I would have to say that the definition of an aayah is also like the definition of surah, unique. Somebody said to me, maybe aayah could be translated as 'sentence'. The sentences of the Quran. Let me tell you why that's impossible. The first aayah of Surah al-Baqarah is what? Alif. Laam. Meem. Full stop. Is that a sentence? I don't know if it is, and I don't know if it's not. Only Allah knows what that means. Okay, check out this one. The first aayah of Surah al-Rahman is what? اَلرَّحْمَان.
It's one word. Is one word a sentence? One word is not a sentence. By the way, in English, Allah taught the Quran. That's a sentence, right? But if you just say, Allah. Is that a sentence? No. Sometimes there are aayaat that are less than a sentence. They're just a word. So you can't call an aayah a sentence. Sometimes there are three aayaat, and they go together to make one sentence. الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ الرَّحْمَٰنِ الرَّحِيمِ مَالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّينِ is one sentence. All of that is actually one sentence. Sometimes you have aayaat that have ten sentences inside one, or nine sentences inside one aayaah. ٱللَّهُ لَاۤ إِلَـٰهَ إِلَّا هُوَ ٱلۡحَیُّ ٱلۡقَیُّومُ لَا تَأۡخُذُهُۥ سِنَةࣱ وَلَا نَوۡمࣱ لَهُۥ مَا فِی ٱلسَّمَـٰوَ ٰ⁠تِ وَمَا فِی ٱلۡأَرۡضِ all the way to the end, all of those nine sentences belong inside how many aayahs? One aayah. So sometimes an aayah is less than a sentence. Sometimes an aayah or multiple aayahs make up one sentence. Sometimes lots of aayaat are inside one sentence. So it is impossible for me to call the aayah a sentence. I can't call it verse and I can't call it sentence. We have to call it something. I have an idea. We should call it aayah.

It is unique. It is unique. Nothing else has the definition of aayah. But you still want to translate it in your head, don't you? What should we, how should we translate aayah. And so today and in part of this introduction, even though I didn't give you a detailed discussion about surah, I will do that tomorrow. You know why I will do that tomorrow? Any guess? Any guess? Why will I talk about surah tomorrow and aayah today? Today is micro. Tomorrow is macro. And surah is macro. So we'll talk about surah tomorrow. But at least we have to talk about aayah today. We'll start with that today. It is one of the most fascinating words of the Arabic language. The word aayah. And I will not write this on the screen because I'm lazy and also because I want you to take notes. The word aayah, the root letters, are hamza, yaa, and yaa. Hamza, yaa, and yaa. Amazing word of the Arabic language. What other words come from the word that we get aayah from? Let me tell you, before I give you the, there are two sides to look at this. The one thing is, we're gonna look at the word aayah from the language perspective, which I'll share with you in a second. But I want to share something about the word aayah with you from the Quran's perspective. I want you to appreciate something about the word aayah. It's amazing. One of the most amazing things I've ever learned about the Quran this whole year, this last year, is the word aayah. It's one of the most amazing lessons. So the Quran says that its unit, its units are aayaat. Yes? بَلۡ هُوَ ءَایَـٰتُۢ بَیِّنَـٰتࣱ The Quran is just ءَایَـٰتُۢ بَیِّنَـٰتࣱ Allah says that 'Eesa ('alayhissalaam) is an aayah. وَلِنَجۡعَلَكَ ءَایَةࣰ لِّلنَّاسِ 'Eesa ('alayhissalaam) himself is an aayah. لَّقَدۡ كَانَ فِی یُوسُفَ وَإِخۡوَتِهِۦۤ ءَایَـٰتࣱ لِّلسَّاۤىِٕلِینَ Yoosuf and his brothers, inside of them there are aayaat. In the story of Yoosuf and in the story of his brothers. Are his brother's good guys or bad guys, most of the story? They're bad guys, even though later on we'll learn they're not really that bad, but for now. So there are aayaat inside a prophet and there are aayaat inside not too good guys, but even they have aayaat inside them. So aayaat are not just the parts of a book, but they are actually things that people did are aayaat. History is aayaat. People themselves, like 'Eesa himself is an aayah. Whatever happened to Yoosuf is an aayah. Whatever his brothers did is also an aayah. Allah says the tree is an aayah, and the mountain is an aayah. Allah says history is an aayah, and the future is an aayah. Allah says, what is inside your body, everything inside of your body and inside of your feelings, and inside of your hearts, that is also aayaat. سَنُرِیهِمۡ ءَایَـٰتِنَا فِی ٱلۡـَٔافَاقِ وَفِیۤ أَنفُسِهِمۡ Inside of yourselves, whatever is going on, are all aayaat. Your sleep is an aayah. You waking up is an aayah. Marriage is an aayah. Love between husband and wife is an an aayah. Oh, my God. I'm not making this up. This is in the Quran. The revelation of Allah is an aayah. Human experience is an aayah. Everything in the universe is an aayah. Actually, if you properly study the Quran, the conclusion you come to is that Allah uses the word aayah to describe all reality. All human experience, all human experience, all truth, everything in existence is actually accurately defined as an aayah. Once you study the Quran, you don't ask, what is an aayah? You actually more ask what is not an aayah. Pretty much everything around you and around me is an aayah, not only around us, but inside us, all of it is an aayah. Next time you read Quran and Allah says, that is an aayah, and this is an aayah, and that's an aayah, pay attention. Just change your perspective on what an aayah is. You see how problematic it is to translate aayah as verse? How limited it is? And how much bigger the aayah is in the Quran. Allah says, for example, I was talking about this in the United Kingdom, وَٱلذَّ ٰ⁠رِیَـٰتِ ذَرۡوࣰا When the winds blow. Allah swears by the winds that blow, the breeze. So you go outside, unlike last night, if you go outside, sometimes there's a breeze. You feel the breeze. The next time you feel the breeze, you should remember that that's actually the tafseer of the aayah of the Quran. وَٱلذَّ ٰ⁠رِیَـٰتِ ذَرۡوࣰا You just experienced an aayah of the Quran, standing outside when the wind was blowing. That's an aayah. The best tafseer of "ٱلذَّ ٰ⁠رِیَـٰتِ ذَرۡوࣰا" is not in a book. The best tafseer of "ٱلذَّ ٰ⁠رِیَـٰتِ ذَرۡوࣰا" is when you experience, what? The wind. The best tafseer of أَوَلَمۡ یَرَوۡا۟ إِلَى ٱلطَّیۡرِ فَوۡقَهُمۡ صَـٰۤفَّـٰتࣲ وَیَقۡبِضۡنَ Didn't they look at the bird above them? That spreads its wings, and pulls them in? The best tafseer of that is not in a book. Where is the best tafseer of, didn't they look at the bird? When you go look at a bird. The aayah is inside the book, and the aayah is also outside the book. You with me so far? Okay. This is actually very powerful. I'll tell you why later on. But now the language of the aayah. I gotta keep track of time too. The language of the aayah. We're actually making pretty good time, alhamduliLlah. I told you the root letters of aayah are what? Do you remember? Hamza, yaa, and yaa. Okay. This word of the Arabic language gives you many meanings, and I want to go through a list of the main meanings of this root, all of which are related to the term aayah. So we gain an insight. We get a deeper appreciation of what is an aayah anyway. We got some idea of what is an aayah from the Quran's perspective. All reality is described as an aayah. Revelation is also described as an aayah. But then, from the language perspective. So here's how it goes. Number one, they say the Arabs used to say, you don't have to write this down, خَرَجَ الْقَوْمُ بِآيَتِهِم The people, you know, caravans used to travel in Arabia and they packed their bags, load them up on camels, and they travel, and they set up a camp, and they spend the night there, and they do a barbecue and a party and all of it. And in the morning they pack up and they leave. Now, when they leave, do they take everything or they take most things? Technically, they take most things. The garbage, the burnt fire, the burnt wood, everything that has no value they leave. Everything that has a value they take up and they go. So when somebody else comes to the campsite, where they left, do they notice that somebody was here? Yes, but do they notice there is nothing valuable left? So they say, خَرَجَ الْقَوْمُ بِآيَتِهِم The people left with everything valuable. The first meaning of an aayah is actually something valuable. Isn't that amazing? That means everything you experience is, what? Valuable. Every problem is valuable. Every gift of Allah is valuable. Every challenge in your life is valuable. Every day is valuable. Every night is valuable. Every ant is valuable, you know? SubhaanAllah. Aayah. The second meaning of aayah comes from, you get the word, أَيِّ from it. Which means a question. An اِسْتِفْهَام. أَدَاةُ الْاِسْتِفْهَام أَيِّ which actually means the aayah, the purpose of the aayah, is to make you ask questions. It's a means of curiosity. The aayah is supposed to inspire curiosity. Let's go through that list again. We've only got two items so far. Something valuable and something that makes you, what? Something that makes you, what? Curious. Something valuable. Something that makes you curious. The third meaning of أَيِّ is الجِهَة. Direction. An aayah is something valuable. And something that makes you curious. And it's something that points to a direction. When they look at the leftovers of the camp, they know that the camp went in that direction. Every aayah of Allah is pointing to a direction, and that direction is Allah Himself. Every aayah of Allah is pointing back to Allah. It is giving you directions to Allah. So the first one was what? You call it out loud, nice and loud. You guys, as many of you here, uhuh, valuable. What's second? Curious. Third? Direction. اَلتَّعَجُّب. Something amazing is also called an aayah. That's why they say, أَيُّ رَجُلٍ هَذَا What kind of an amazing guy is that! Amazing thing, أَيُّ بَيت. What an amazing house! An aayah is something valuable, something amazing. Now, it's supposed to make you wonder. You know, people who don't believe in God, people who don't have religion, they're pretty depressed. They're never amazed. "Look at the bright, sunny morning, subhaanAllah!" "Eh, it's so sunny." "It's so hot." The believer looks at the creation of Allah, and he is amazed. She's amazed. The disbeliever says, [Inaudible muttering] They're just depressed. They're not amazed by it. They're never impressed. And the believer's constantly impressed. Because every aayah is a source of amazement. Of wonder. Then اَلنِّدَاء وَالتَّنْبِيه. Beautiful. Have you heard the phrase, یَـٰۤأَیُّهَا ٱلَّذِینَ ءَامَنُوا۟ Have you heard that before? یَـٰۤأَیُّهَا ٱلَّذِینَ ءَامَنُوا۟ The أَيّ in أَيُّهَا is أَدَاةُ التَّنْبِيه وَالنِّدَاء What that means in simple English is the أَيّ part is there to get your attention and it is calling to you. Every aayah is calling you and trying to get your attention.

In other words, human beings must pay attention to the reality around them, everything around them. If you pay attention to it, you will learn lessons. If you don't pay attention, you'll learn nothing. So it's a means of getting your attention. That's اَلتَّنْبِيه. The word aayah, another derivative of it is the word إِيّ إِيّ is actually an Arabic word. إِيّ means yes. Like if somebody's talking to you and says, hey! Did you go to Divine Speech? You say, إِيّ. That means yes, absolutely. Now those of you that know some Arabic what's the other word for yes. نَعَم. But إِيّ is used when you are absolutely convinced and you say. Yes! I got it! It's yes, when you are absolutely certain. In other words, the aayah is a means of bringing you certainty. It will make you, give you conviction. There's a source of conviction in aayah. The aayaat are enough for you to be convinced. As part of that I want to share something on the side with you. It's again an important philosophical point. The Quran is beautiful because it's made of aayaat, and the aayaat are supposed to give you conviction. They're supposed to convince you that they are from Allah. But the Quran itself teaches you, إِنَّ فِي السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالْأَرْضِ لَآيَاتٍ لِّلْمُؤْمِنِينَ the skies and the earth already have aayaat, enough for people who want to be convinced. The skies and the earth have aayaat. Not just for you to think, but also to be convinced. In other words, conviction comes from all the aayaat. Not just the aayaat of the Quran, the aayaat of the sky, the earth, all existence, they're also aayaat, and they're enough to give you conviction too. SubhaanAllah. Every aayah is enough to give you conviction, and we'll see the implications of that, inshaa'Allah, as the day progresses. Two more left. I'll go through it again. The first meaning of aayah, by the way, was? Something valuable. Then we talked about a curiosity. Then we talked about a direction. Then we talked about being amazed. Then we talked about something that's calling you. Then we talked about huh? Certainty. Now we're gonna talk about the word aayah meaning "meaning" itself. A أَي means "meaning". Like when you read tafseer. They say,
هَذِهِ الكَلِمَة، أَي: تِلْكَ الكَلِمَة you see, this word means that word. أَي actually means "meaning" itself. You know why that's beautiful? Because Allah is saying everything doesn't just have value. It has meaning. It has something meaningful. For someone who doesn't believe in Allah, the universe has no meaning. Life has no meaning. It's pointless. Purposeless. The word aayah itself indicates that it has meaning. It has substance. Then this is why the next meaning of aayah, the verb that comes from aayah is تَأيَّى، يَتَأَيَّى which means to have intention, strong intention and motive. The aayah gives purpose. To have purpose is inside the word aayah. And finally, the aayah is what you commonly know اَلعَلَّامَة. A sign. Have you heard the transition of aayah as a sign before? Right? And that's part of the meaning of an aayah. It's a common usage of the word aayah as a sign. All of this is what an aayah is. [Laughs] Now you tell me, how unfair is it to call it a verse? It's just or sentence? You just can't. I don't and the harder I try, the more I realize the only thing I can call the aayah is what? Aayah. The only thing I can call the surah is what? a surah. Just on its own. It's unique. So these are the aayat of the Quran. So this this was my basic introduction to why the Quran, as literature is unique. The surah cannot be compared to anything else. The aayah cannot be compared to anything else and in the macro studies we'll even look at the word Quran. The name of the book altogether. Quran. And we'll look at that and say, what's the benefit of calling it Quran? Does it give us some clues as to how we can understand it better? But that's tomorrow, inshaa'Allah ta'aalaa. Now let's talk a little bit about Arabic before I give you a break. A little bit about Arabic, an introduction to Arabic. It's not an Arabic class. But those of you that are writing this down, here's what you're gonna write down. There are three kinds of Arabic.

The first one is spoken Arabic. Spoken Arabic. The second one is formal Arabic. And the third one is old Arabic. You can call it classical Arabic, old Arabic, ancient Arabic, whatever you wanna call it. So, you tell me now. What was the first one? Spoken Arabic. Second one? Formal Arabic. Third one? Old Arabic, classical Arabic. Before we start looking into the Quran, finding amazement in it, we have to know that the Quran was revealed in Arabic, but we have to also understand which Arabic. Because there are at least how many kinds of Arabic? Three. So we have to understand the difference between these three before we get into the Arabic of the Quran, and analyze and extract benefits from the Quran. This is critical. So let's talk about spoken Arabic. Spoken Arabic is the Arabic that is used when you order a shawarma. It is used If you're watching an Egyptian soap opera. AstaghfiruLlaah al-'Azeem. Uh, if you are, you know, spoken Arabic is what's also called 'Aamiyyah, or Lahjaat. Right? Uh, this is dialectical. So the Algerians have their own, and the Egyptians have their own, and the Syrians have their own, and the Moroccans have their own. The Palestinians have way their own. This is totally different. Like the Fellahis have their own and whatever. كَيفَ حَالُكَ. You must have heard that before. كَيفَ حَالُكَ The Fellahis have "chef haalech". That's how they say 'how are you?' The "ka" becomes "cha". Chef haalech. The Egyptian says "izzayak beek". Right? So, uh, I don't know where that came from even. I tried finding it. Okay? So the spoken Arabic is basically street Arabic, you can call it. Street Arabic, informal Arabic, and everybody's got their own dialect. Everybody's got their own accent. And sometimes they're very different from each other. Like sometimes an Egyptian, if he's talking to an Algerian, may have a really hard time. If he's speaking 'Aamiyyah he may have a really hard, like, "What did you say?" Because especially after colonialism, there's some influences of, like French and Spanish and other influences that came into those languages and they got mixed in. And the Arabs that live in America, they even have, like English, mixed into their Arabic. Like I was talking to an imam one time and he's on the phone and he said to his wife, أَنَا لَم أَشُب بَعْد I was like, "لَم أَشُب بَعْد"? What does that mean? I didn't, what did you say? مَاذَا قُلْتَ فِي العَرَبِيَة He said, "Oh, I didn't shop yet." أنَا لَم أَشُب [crowd laughs] So شَبَّ يَشُبُّ became his verb for shopping. [laughs] [laughs again] Similarly, one of my friends went to Egypt, and he's trying to rent an apartment. He goes "هَذِهِ شَقَّة مُلَيَّت" مُلَيَّت. And he's like "مُلَيَّت?" What's "مُلَيَّت"? I've never heard of Oh مُلَيَّت! "Well-lit". [laughs] From "light". So they it's spoken Arabic. Okay, there are no rules. You can make it up as you go. Okay? The second kind of Arabic is what? By the way, the Quran is not in spoken Arabic. You should know. AlhamduliLlaah. The second is what? Formal Arabic. Formal Arabic is the Arabic of the newspaper, the Arabic maybe of Al Jazeera, the Arabic of the khaatirah and the lectures done by most shuyookh. The lectures that you you listen to, that you download those of you who are students of Arabic, you listen to lectures of sheikhs in Arabic. That's formal Arabic. But sometimes they tell you a joke. Then they switch over to 'Aamiyyah immediately. Right. So they do that sometimes. So, uh, you know, and sometimes I, for example, I love listening to Sheikh Mohammed Rateb Al-Nabulsi, for example. He's really nice. Clean. He's like your uncle sitting next to you, holding his arm over your shoulder, telling you a lecture. He's so nice, you know? And you just feel happy and cuddly inside when you listen to Sheikh Mohammed Rateb Al-Nabulsi. He's got this wonderful explanation of the entire Quran online. He actually, we had the honor of him visiting our campus not too long ago in Texas. He visited, maashaa'Allah. So anyway, so he's talking and he's giving his lecture and in the middle of it, sometimes because he gets fired up, he goes back to his Syrian dialect, right? And in the Syrian dialect they use فِيْ, the word فِيْ, which in Arabic, actual formal Arabic it means 'in'. But in informal Arabic, in spoken Arabic, it means 'there is'. There is. So he says, في السَّيارة في بيت، في شقة.
في this,  في that... And I was like, فِي? What's inside a car and inside an apartment? He goes, Tthere is an apartment, you have a this, you have a that. So he uses the word, what? فِي. فِي. Okay? There's another, there's a crazy story, but I might as well tell you. The, the Urdu speakers, any Urdu speakers here? Like two of you? Very good. Congratulations. Okay, so the word  "maafee", "maafee", is an urdu word. Means "sorry". Maafee means sorry. But "maafee" (مَا فِي) in Arabic Does not mean sorry. You know what "maafee" means in Arabic? There's nothing. There's nothing. Like you go to the Arab guy and you say, uh, Pepsi? "Maafee". Chocolate? "Maafee". Okay, Coke? "Fee!" (فِي). You understand? So the Urdu speaker says "maafee" means what? Sorry. And the Arab speaker says "maafee" means Nothing. I don't have. There is nothing. Poor Pakistani guy. He goes to 'Umrah. And he's standing at the Haram. He's going, "Allah maafee, Allah maafee". "Allah maafee". [crowd laughs] And the shurtee, the cop, gets down and he starts beating him. "Fee! Fee!" [laughs] So. But anyway, there's spoken Arabic and there's what? Formal Arabic. Now I speak some Arabic. I don't speak spoken Arabic. I do speak formal Arabic. Uh, those of you that are going to an Islamic university, the professor speaks in Arabic. Guess which Arabic? He speaks formal Arabic. The books and the PhD papers that are written, they're written in formal Arabic. Okay, uh, those of you that are victims of the book called اَلعَرَبِيَة بَينَ يَدَيكَ, that's supposed to be formal Arabic. Okay? So formal Arabic is what we find around us in those formal kinds of settings. Modern books and papers that are published are all formal, but I need everybody here to know, there's a big difference between spoken and formal, and there's a big difference between formal and what's the last one. Old Arabic, ancient Arabic, classical, Arabic. There is also a big difference. And I need everybody before this introduction is done to understand the difference between formal Arabic and old Arabic, because a lot of students make the mistake and they don't think there's a difference. So a lot of students think if they know formal Arabic, that must mean they also know old Arabic. And so what's the common mistake is nowadays formal Arabic, they call it الَعَرَبِيَة الفُصخَى الَعَرَبِيَة الفُصخَى Fushah is formal Arabic. And so they say the Quran is in Fushah, and I'm also learning what? Fushah. Which means it's the same. Fushah is Fushah. But actually, this is الَعَرَبِيَة الفُصخَى المُعَاصِرَة And there's الَعَرَبِيَة الفُصخَى القَدِيمَة. There's modern Fushah and old Fushah. You have to maintain a difference between those two, if you're going to make correct analyses of the Quran. Now, let's understand why there's a difference between those two. The Arabs at the time of the Prophet ﷺ, and even before that time, for thousands of years, even before that time, they lived in a desert. They lived in a place that did not have a lot of rivers and trees and greenery, and they definitely didn't have oil yet. Like, it was just desert. Now, in that environment, who were their neighbors? The Romans were their neighbors. The Abyssinians were their neighbors. The Persians were their neighbors, right? They had these kingdoms and empires that were their neighbors. But everybody left the Arabs alone. You would think the Romans would want to conquer more territory and take over the Arabs. You would also think that the Persians would like to conquer more territory and take over the Arabs. Because if you know something about big superpowers, they like to expand the size of their backyard. So the question is, how come nobody cares about, what? The Arabs. How come nobody took over? And if they wanted to, could they have taken over? Yes, because they have massive armies, huge armies, and the Arabs had nothing. No resources. There were a Bedouin people, easy to take over. The simple answer to why they didn't take over is there was no oil yet. [crowd laughs] Okay, that's a simple answer. Why should we send my soldiers? Why should we send our soldiers to get barbecued in the middle of the sand? For what? Leave it alone. And if the Romans tried to take over a little bit, then who will get nervous? The Persians on the other side. Because you know, between two countries, usually there's a border and there's a no man's land. I love that name. No man's land, Right? It means, I know I own a lot of land in the world. Okay, so, so the Arab land actually became a kind of no man's land because if the Romans move in or the Persians move in then the other party gets nervous, and it might break out into a war. So everybody left it alone. So the Arabs were basically left alone. Now, when you are left alone, simple question. When you are left alone, who do you talk to? Each other. You only talk to each other. You don't really talk much to people outside because you're only mostly spending time with each other. It's true some Arabs did some trade, but for the most part a lot of people didn't come in. People only went out and came back in. So it was an isolated culture. For the most part. When that culture was isolated, Arabic became more and more and more refined, and it took less and less outside influence. Why is the apartment guy in Egypt saying this apartment is مُلَيَّت? Why is he saying that? Because he's influenced by what? English. Movies. There's outside influence. Outside influence affects language, doesn't it? It affects language, but if you have no outside influence, you keep your own original language. It's retained, its refined. So the Arabs for thousands of years are for the most part left alone, which means the Arabic gets refined and refined and refined, and there is no outside influence. And this Arabic becomes so advanced. You know, when you talk to each other for a long time, you develop your own language. Like when two people are friends for a long time, they have their own code. Nobody else understands that code. They understand each other. You understand that point? Socially, that's true too. Socially, the Arabs would talk to each other and they developed this advanced code among each other. Only they understand it. Nobody else gets it. So when somebody comes from the outside, they said, that guy is pretty much, he's like, pardon the term, He's retarded. He's عَجَمِي. He's retarded. He can't understand our speech. We're way up there. We're speaking a code. So they developed this code. It was very advanced. It really was. It's impressive. It's also important to note that these Arabs, what did they produce? Did they produce beautiful buildings? Did they produce the world's greatest artifacts? Art? Literature? They produce pretty much nothing. And every nation has to have something that they're proud of. They say we have the world's greatest something, but the Arabs had, "We have the world's greatest...oh, what do we have?" Language. So they became proud of their language. Because if you look around, there's not much else to be proud of. So they really took care of their language because when a nation becomes proud of something, they really take care of it, they really take care of it. Now let's take a step further. You understand why Arabic was so refined and so developed? It got so refined and so developed that they, man, the way they used to think. It's fascinating. I'll just give you one example. I don't want to give you lots of examples. Just one example. To make this point, how refined it was. I'll tell you the story of a poet. This guy was really poor. He didn't have any money and he was married. So his wife used to complain to him about what? Money. So he made a poem to answer his wife. And in the poem, he said, فَالسَّيلُ حَرْبٌ عَلَى مَكَانٍ عَالِ Hehe, strange poem. He says, heavy rain. Listen to the English. It sounds crazy. Heavy rain is at war Heavy rain is at war against a house ontop of a hill. I know that sounds insane. I'll say that again. Heavy rain is having a war. Against who? Against a house. And where's the house? On top of a hill. I know you're poor. You're also insane. You understand? Like, but this was actually his genius. He was speaking code. Let me decode it for you. Imagine there's heavy rain. Imagine there's a hill. There's a mountain and on top of the mountain there is a house. When it's raining. Where does the water go? Does it stay on the top? Or does it go to the bottom? It goes to the bottom of the hill. Yes? So it floods the bottom. But the house, it attacks the house. But it never stays there. The attacks all failed because the only flood that happens is at the bottom. The poet is saying wealth comes from Allah. Wealth comes from the sky. But I'm a high person. Whenever wealth comes to me, it leaves me. And the people that are wealthy are down there in the flood. In the mud. [laughs] They had a code. They spoke in code, man. And it's funny. It's sometimes really funny and sometimes really, like, fascinating how creative they were in the code that they developed. But you know what happened when Islam became victorious? Let's fast forward. Islam became victorious. Allah gave this Deen victory. إِذَا جَاۤءَ نَصۡرُ ٱللَّهِ وَٱلۡفَتۡحُ People started entering into this Deen. وَءَاخَرِینَ مِنۡهُمۡ لَمَّا یَلۡحَقُوا۟ بِهِمۡ There are other nations, other ethnicities, that haven't joined the ummah yet. They started joining the, you know, the Asia started getting conquered, the Roman territories, the Persian territory started getting conquered, and they're now becoming part of the world of Islam. Are all those regions Arab? No. So there's a huge population of new Muslims, huge population of new Muslims. All of a sudden, within a few years. Now, all of those people become students of Arabic. Yes? When you're students of Arabic, do you speak good Arabic or really bad Arabic? You speak really bad Arabic. I mean, it's really embarrassing. Now there are millions of people that are speaking really bad Arabic. And because all of them have become Muslim, they want to come and make 'Umrah. They want to visit Medina. They want to settle in the Arab lands so they can learn. And if a lot of foreigners come into the country. For thousands of years the Arabs were by themselves. Do you remember that? And now, because of Islam, all these foreigners came in, these Persians, and these Romans, and everybody came in. Do you think when foreigners come into the country, does the local language get better or does the local language gets worse? It's happening everywhere in the world nowadays, isn't it? Foreigners come and the language goes down. Arabic started going down because of Islam. Actually because of Islam. Because there were too many what? Non-Arabs. Too many of us. Yeah, we did it, you know? Now what happens is like, you know, for example, in the United States. I spent a lot of my young years in New York, and New York is an immigration capital. People from all over the world move into New York. And I realized something as I traveled across the United States. The worst English spoken in the United States is in New York. That is also because it is the capital of immigration. Others are coming in. The big cities have the worst local language. I bet you the villages in Malaysia have a lot better local language than the city in Malaysia. Kuala Lumpur probably has much worse. I guarantee it. Why? People are coming in from the outside. Foreign influence. You understand? So now Arabic starts going down. And you would think this happened hundreds of years over time. Does it take a long time for a language to go down or a short time? We should know the answer to that nowadays. It takes a very short time. It takes an extremely short time. I've had personal experience with this. I learned Urdu in a Pakistani school until I was maybe 15 or 14 years old. And then I left the country. I've never been back to Pakistan since. So the only Urdu I know is from what I learned back then. This is 20 years ago. Now after all these years, I was asked to give a lecture in Urdu. So I gave a lecture in Urdu but which Urdu do I remember? The Urdu I learned in school. So I started getting complaint emails. Your Urdu is too complicated. Use more English words in your Urdu. I said, what happened here? You know, because the, even in Pakistan the Urdu of 20 years ago is not the Urdu now. It's gone. So the people from back then don't speak the language that they speak now. It's deteriorated, you understand? So now, having said that, let me tell you, even the Sahaba noticed. Did you know that? Even the Sahaba noticed that Arabic is going down. There's an interesting narration of Ali (رضي الله عنه). He was walking by and he saw some kids playing with each other. And they're talking to each other. And he said, هَذَا لَيسَ لِسَانَ العَرَب This is not the language of the Arabs. They're talking to each other, Arab kids talking to each other in Arabic and he's saying, that's not Arabic. What's going on here? Language is going down. It's crazy. The state of emergency, was being noticed by people like Umar (رضي الله عنه), Ali (رضي الله تعالى عنه). There are narrations about this. Arabic is going down. Therefore, there were actually, now I'm at the conclusion of this introduction, there were three movements in Islam. The three protection movements. There was the movement to protect the Quran. There was the movement to protect Hadith. And there was the movement to protect Arabic. There were three movements. Most of the time people know about two movements. Which two movements? The movement to protect the Quran and the movement to protect Hadith. But they don't really remember the movement to protect Arabic. How do you protect Arabic, though? All the big cities of Islam are getting contaminated by foreigners. So you cannot get good Arabic in the cities anymore. If you want to get the good, clean, old, unfiltered, uncontaminated Arabic, you must go to the villages. You must go out in the desert that's still empty, and go find the Bedouins that are still speaking the Arabic. So you find the stories of our ulamaa like al-Shafi'ee (رحمه الله), al-Asma'ee and others. They leave the city and they go out in the desert and they're just traveling in the desert, and you think, Oh, they traveled in the desert because of taqwa, because they didn't want to be in the city because it was too مُلَيَّت. You know? No, no, no. One of the reasons they traveled outside of the city was because they were trying to capture and record the original language, the original language. Like al-Asma'ee, one of my favorite guys, I'll tell you a story about al-Asma'ee. He's kind of, رَحِمَهُ الله, I want to go to Jannah, one of my motivations is I want to meet al-Asma'ee because he is one of the funniest people I've ever read about. He is hilarious. You know, when people study for a long time, they become a little strange. If you spend your life in the library, you become a little weird, like, you know, you're socially awkward kind of thing. He was, رَحِمَهُ الله, socially awkward. He did not care what came in his mouth. He just said it. So he used to write a journal of his travels. He's learning Arabic, right? So he's traveling. And he wrote his journal. He was traveling somewhere and he came across a man. He says, I came across a man who was really ugly. And he wrote this in his journal, like, wow! You are really honest! And you don't care. But this man was really nice to me because nobody else knew me in the village. He took me in. He brought me to his house. He asked his wife to cook for me. So his wife was cooking for him and she brought the food. And he said, I looked at his wife for one second, and I remember she was extremely beautiful. He wrote that down too. A normal 'aalim would not write that down. This is al-Asma'ee. He doesn't care. And then he wrote down, and when she left the room, I talked to, and she could still hear him from the kitchen, he talked to the husband. He said, كَيفَ هَذَا How did this happen? [laughs]

See, that's al-Asma'ee, he doesn't care. Like, I don't understand this situation here. Does she have vision problems or...? [laughs] So she got angry at him. She, from the kitchen, got angry at him and she said, you should have taqwaa of Allah. Maybe he was really good to Allah, and I am his reward. Or maybe I was really bad and he's my punishment. [laughs] So I brought up al-Asma'ee because he actually went on these strange journeys, only to do what? To capture the old Arabic. Because the city was still speaking Arabic. It's true. The city was still speaking Arabic, but it wasn't as pure as the Arabic of the desert. Now, why is it important to protect the Arabic of the desert? It was important because the Quran came in the Arabic of the desert. I want to leave you with a visual. So you understand this problem. This is a very important problem in Islamic studies. You have glasses, you have glasses, and those glasses have a little bit of dirt on them. When you put those glasses on and you don't even realize they have dirt on them, everything you see looks what? Everything you see looks dirty. It doesn't look clean. Because you have, what? Dirt on them. Sometimes your laptop has a stain on the screen, but you're looking at the file, the video or the image, and you're like, that's kind of, you can't tell that that's a stain on the screen. It looks like a stain on the image itself. You understand? You have this dirt on the glasses. You don't think it's the dirt on the glasses. You think it's a dirt on what you see. Now, Arabic, old Arabic, is clean glasses. Old Arabic is what? Clean glasses. And new Arabic is, the new formal Arabic even is still what? Some kind of dirty glass. Now, when you're looking at a diamond with dirty glasses, you see something shiny, but it's still dirty, not that impressive. You look at the same diamond with what? Clear glasses. And what do you see? "Oh my God, that's amazing!" "That's incredible!" The problem is not with the diamond. The problem is with your glasses. We have to look at the Quran not from formal Arabic, but from classical Arabic. The problem is classical Arabic died. It died in the desert. Thank Allah they protected it. So we can go back and dig and find those meetings again. How many meanings I gave you of the word aayah today? You will not get those meanings of the word aayah in, which Arabic? Formal Arabic. You will only get the meaning of the aayah in, what? Classical Arabic. Because the modern Arab, even if he speaks really good Arabic, does not know that Arabic anymore. It died. And it's a history study now. It is a research study now. So we have to go back and learn that language and study that language so we can analyze the Quran with the proper lens. This solves huge problems for us. Inshaa'Allah we will see one of these problems repeat, and I'll discuss that with you inshaa'Allah ta'aalaa, when the time comes. Hopefully tomorrow. Hopefully tomorrow. Some interesting discussions are coming tomorrow. So it's time now for your well deserved first break.
