The last session of Divine Speech, folks. We have reached the end. Alhamdulillah. The last session of Divine Speech is dialogue in the Qur'an. And in order to give you a sample of how beautiful and how powerful dialogue in the Qur'anis; it is not in your notes don't look in your notes. Forget it. Just look at me. I'll tell you a story. The dialogue I have chosen to share with you at the end of this seminar is a dialogue that takes place between Musa 'alahissalam and Fir'own. I'll start you off
أعوذ بالله من الشيطان الرجيم وَإِنَّ رَبَّكَ لَهُوَ الْعَزِيزُ الرَّحِيمُ No doubt about it. Your Master, truly He is the Ultimate Authority. And truly He is He's always loving and caring. Allah's authority will manifest against Fir'own. And Allah's love and care will be on the side of Musa 'alahissalam. وَإِذْ نَادَى رَبُّكَ مُوسَى أَنِ ائْتِ الْقَوْمَ الظَّالِمِينَ
When your Master made a call to Musa go to the wrongdoing nation, Musa is now being called. Where's Musa 'alahissalam? On top of the mountain. He's having a conversation with Allah. That's where we are beginning in Surat al-Shu'ara Surah number 26. And is saying to him, 'You need to go to the wrongdoing nation.' Now Allah is not telling him to go to one person. He's going to tell him to go to the entire nation. Which wrongdoing nation nation Ya Allah? He says, 
قَوْمَ فِرْعَوْنَ أَلا يَتَّقُونَ The nation of Fir'own. Don't they have any Taqwa? You need to go to the nation of Fir'own. The problem with that is 
Musa 'alahissalam is a fugitive, wanted for murder, running away from where? From Fir'own. And he needs to go back and not just go talk to one person. He needs to go talk to the entire nation. I need you to understand the irony here. As he left Egypt, he made sure not a single person saw him. And as he goes back he has to make sure he sees every single person. He needs to go address the entire nation. That's the responsibility Allah is giving him. قَوْمَ فِرْعَوْنَ أَلا يَتَّقُونَ
Don't they have any fear? Don't they have any fear? Now, Musa 'alahissalam is going to respond to this. I want you to make a if you are taking notes, make a list. قَالَ رَبِّ إِنِّي أَخَافُ أَن يُكَذِّبُونِ He said, 'Master, I'm really afraid that they will call me a liar.' His fear number one, what is it? They will call me a liar. Fear number two. وَيَضِيقُ صَدْرِي
'My chest becomes tight.' Let me tell you what that means. Musa 'alahissalam has a hot temper. He gets angry sometimes. And when they call him a liar he will become what? Angry. And when his when his anger comes in, his chest becomes tight. وَيَضِيقُ صَدْرِي 
I get frustrated. You can say I get frustrated. وَلا يَنطَلِقُ لِسَانِ
'And my tongue stops moving.' I get frustrated and my tongue stops moving. So if you've got three problems so far. One, they will call me a liar. Two I get frustrated. Three, my tongue stops moving. You need to understand what that means. When a person gets frustrated, they can't speak anymore. I know that's true of me when I'm really, really angry. I'm not able to even make one clear sentence. I start jumbling my words. Wallahi I sound like I don't know how to speak. I sound like I don't know how to speak. When I'm really frustrated. that's what I do when I'm frustrated. If I'm not frustrated, I could talk forever. That what my wife tells me. Which is why she really tries to frustrate me so I talk less. Right? So but anyway, anyway, now when he gets frustrated, what's going to happen? He won't be able to speak. The other problem is Musa 'alahissalam has a stutter. And when people that have a stutter get frustrated, what happens? They can't speak. He says to Allah, 'Ya Allah, they will call me a liar.' 'I will get frustrated and my tongue will stop moving.' وَلا يَنطَلِقُ لِسَانِي فَأَرْسِلْ إِلَى هَارُونَ Then send the mission to Harun also. Send the message to Harun also. In other words, in other places we'll learn in the Qur'an, why send it to Harun? If I don't do the job, who will? Harun will. Okay, so so far what are the problems and requests? First problem Tell me. Tell me.

They'll call me a liar. Two I get frustrated. Three my tongue won't move. Four, here's a request. Send Harun. Five
وَلَهُمْ عَلَيَّ ذَنبٌ They have a crime registered against me. I'm wanted. They have a rap sheet on me. I am wanted for for something. What is that? Murder. isn't it? Accidental murder. But that's what they have against me for a half. And finally, they have a crime listed against me 
فَأَخَافُ أَن يَقْتُلُونِ Therefore, I am afraid that they will kill me because I know last time I was there, my friend told me that as soon as they kill me as soon as they see me, they're not going to arrest me. They're actually going to kill me in, uh, إِنَّ الْمَلَأَ يَأْتَمِرُونَ بِكَ لِيَقْتُلُوكَ The chiefs are scheming against you so they can kill you. In other words, the cops were not looking for him so they could arrest him. The cops were looking for him so they could kill him. So he says, Ya Allah if I go back the cops last I remember their orders were to see me and not arrest me. But see me and kill me. فَأَخَافُ أَن يَقْتُلُونِ Now the list of these five fears five concerns that are keeping him from doing his mission are an amazing order. Because if it was me, my first concern would be I am going to get killed and of this list, where is this concern? It's at the end. His first concern is I will not be able to fulfill Your mission. They'll call me a liar. I have a problem. I get frustrated. My tongue doesn't move. The mission is more important than my life. So please send Harun. By the way, another reason for sending Harun is, I might get killed on sight since they have a crime listed against me. It's like already Musa 'alahissalam recognizes that his life is worth nothing compared to the mission that Allah has given him فَأَخَافُ أَن يَقْتُلُونِ Allah will respond to him and Allah 'azzawajal says, قَالَ
 He said. كَلاَّ
Wait a minute, how do I translate (كَلاَّ)? Here's how I trans;ate (كَلاَّ) No problem. That's all Allah says. That's all He says to him. Musa 'alahissalam gave an entire speech, he said 
رَبِّ إِنِّي أَخَافُ أَن يُكَذِّبُونِ وَيَضِيقُ صَدْرِي وَلا يَنطَلِقُ لِسَانِي فَأَرْسِلْ إِلَى هَارُونَ وَلَهُمْ عَلَيَّ ذَنبٌ فَأَخَافُ أَن يَقْتُلُونِ All of that and Allah says No problem. It is as though Allah is saying-- he says they'll call me a liar. Allah says No, no, don't worry about it. But my chest becomes tight. Don't worry about it. My tongue won't move. Don't worry about it. Send Harun. Okay don't worry about it. I got you. I have a crime listed against me. Don't worry about it. They might kill me. Don't worry about it. One word. Done. And this is not like the (كلا) you and I use. You and I you know, when you're when you tell your employee, Listen, I need you to finish this, this, this, this, this. Don't worry about it. It's so scary to me because that means nothing will get done. Or just like when the sister here tells the husband to get the groceries and she's giving him the list, he goes, No, I don't need a list. Don't worry about it. She knows nothing is coming back. But when Allah says to Musa 'alahissalam, Don't worry (كلا). No, no, no, no, no, no. What is He saying? Everything's taken care of. Then He says, (فَاذْهَبَا). Then both of you go. Hey, wait a second. What do you mean, both of you? What is both of you? Who's the two? So in the response, He already includes the response that Musa has been given authorization to give the mission to Harun 'alaihissalam also. بِآيَاتِنَا
Go both of you with Our miraculous signs. Go with Our miracles, go with Our Ayat. Now tell me, did he ask for miracles? So first Allah took care of all of his concerns. Then Allah gave him Harun. Then Allah also give him what he didn't even ask for which are the miracles. And He says فَاذْهَبَا بِآيَاتِنَا إِنَّا مَعَكُم مُّسْتَمِعُونَ Here's where it gets so beautiful, He says, 'No doubt about it when you go, We are going to be listening alongside you.' We're gonna be listening along with you. But He didn't say (انا معكما مستمعون). He says (إِنَّا مَعَكُم مُّسْتَمِعُونَ). We are going to be listening alongside all of you, not both of you. But it's two of them. Why say all of you? It is as though Allah is saying I will send a legion of angels with you. They'll be there too. We'll be listening. And it is as though Allah is saying He won't just be listening to Musa 'alahissalam He'll be listening to Fir'own and the ministers and the magicians. He'll listen to everybody. And if Allah is saying that He will be listening carefully. Not (سمعون), (مستمعون). We will be listening carefully and constantly to everything that happens between you and Fir'own. If Allah is saying that before He even gets us into the conversation, it is as though Allah is telling us, I myself listened to this conversation carefully. What about you? So we better listen to this conversation carefully. That's the legacy left in the Qur'an by Allah.
إِنَّا مَعَكُم مُّسْتَمِعُونَ فَأْتِيَا فِرْعَوْنَ
Then you know what? 'Both of you go Fir'own.' Oh, wait, wait, wait. I was told to go to the nation. The nation. Now Allah changes it and says, no, no, no. You don't just go to the nation of Fir'own. They don't have any Taqwa. You need to go straight to who? Fir'own. I would think maybe I'll start with the security guards and the farmers. I'll work my way up to the grocery store owner, maybe work with one governor, one minister, work to the second minister, eventually work my way up. And maybe if I get a chance, I'll talk to who? Fir'own. Allah says, why don't you start with Fir'own? That should be easy. فَأْتِيَا فِرْعَوْنَ فَقُولا إِنَّا رَسُولُ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ You go to Fir'own and you tell him, both of you say to him that we are the messenger. Listen, I'm translating carefully. Please tell me where you might think there's an error. We are the messenger of the Master of all nations. We are the messenger of the Master of all nations. Where is the obvious problem? Not messengers. I'm translating as the Ayah says it. Why? Because rhetorically Allah is saying that these two men are supposed to be inseparable. So as though they are not two. But they are one. Now why is that important? Let me explain in a second. There's lots of things to explain here. Anybody see Finding Nemo?

Both of you go to Fir'own. Tell him that we are the messenger of the Master of all nations and 
أَرْسِلْ مَعَنَا بَنِي إِسْرَائِيلَ And you better let the sons of Israel come along with us. You better let them go. You go tell him that. Okay?  Allah is telling him and Harun 'alaihissalam tell him that. Okay? So you've seen Finding Nemo, huh? You better have; it's Wajib. So in finding Nemo, there's an important scene. Those of you who are not familiar with Islamic history. Finding Nemo is extremely important. in Finding Nemo, the father; whose name is? Whose name is? Come on, Islamic knowledge. Let's go, huh, Marlon. Very good. And his blue companion, Dory. Masha Allah. There are people with Isnad here. Very good. Okay, so Marlins depressed. He can't find his son. He ends up on the back of a giant Australian turtle named Crush. And he's really sad. He doesn't want to talk about it. And he says, 'I'm looking for my son Nemo.' And these baby turtles come and say, 'Really? tell us a story, ooh a story.' And he tells them the story. And as he tells them the story these turtles, they swim and they tell the story to some other fish. Those fish tell it to some other fish. Those fish tell it to some other fish those fish jump up, the dolphins jump up and tell it to seagulls. You know-- those guys and they then they fly over and get the news to Australia until one of the seagulls hears. 'Hey? Really? Nemo?' 'His dad's coming?' And he flies over to the dentist's office and tells Nemo, right? So what I'm trying to say is A told B. B told C. C told D. D told E. E told Nemo. Right? Now, the story is long. Let's say the story that that the fish told the Marlin told the turtles, is 10 sentences. Let's just say it's 10 sentences. How did they film it? How did the filmmakers show this story? They didn't say that between A and B here are the 10 sentences. And between B and C let's repeat those 10 sentences and between C and D let's repeat those 10 sentences. That would become extremely boring. Because we already know those 10 sentences in the story. So they came up with a really creative way of showing you that A told B the story. Be told C the story. C told D the story. What they did was they showed the first sentence between A and B and the second sentence between B and C and the third sentence between C and D, and you can fill in the blanks. Even a five year old watching the movie can tell that actually, it wasn't just one sentence that each party shared. Each party is supposed to have shared what? The entire story. But in order to move the story along quickly and get to the interesting parts, this was a technique that was used. Now I bring this up because this is a very creative modern, you know, innovative film technique. No, it's not. It's actually in the Qur'an. It's in the Qur'an. And it's in this story we're about to read. Where is Musa 'alahissalam? He's on the mountain and Allah is telling him, you need to go where? Fir'own. Is that a short journey or a long journey? And when you go to Fir'own you better tell him that we are the messenger of the Master of all nations, and you better let the Israelites come along with us. The next Ayah says
قَالَ أَلَمْ نُرَبِّكَ فِينَا وَلِيدًا
Fir'own responded 'Didn't I raise you as a young born-- newborn?' What? Fir'own responded? How did we get to Fir'own? We just fast forwarded. We were just where? In the movie. We were just on top of the mountain. Wait, what's missing? Then Musa 'alaihissalam came down from the mountain. It was a sunny day, possibly 12 degrees celsius. And as he came down Northwest he mounted on his camel, packed his bags, headed towards Harun 'alaihissalam. Who he hasn't seen for a long time. He sees him. Hey, Harun bro, how's it going? Yeah. Did you get the message? They the angel come to you? Yep, he did. Ready to go already, packed my bags and I got lunch. Your favorite sandwich. Let's go together. Then they went to Egypt. As they got to Egypt. They were kind of worried, and they were getting a little hungry. There was a McDonald's on the way, but they said, that's Haram, so they didn't go there, and then they kept going. Now they're inside Egypt, and when they're inside Egypt, they're kind of trying to avoid the security guards, and they don't know where to go but they remember that Allah told them that they have to go to who? Fir'own. Which means they head towards the Kafir house, the big big castle. They head towards the castle. But the castle is not a train station. There are guards outside. You can't just walk in so they get to the station. They get to the guards outside and the guards stopped them. Who's there? And he says, Musa. Let Fir'own know I need to speak with him. The guard goes inside. The other one is busy inside because he's eating his cheeseburger, trying to catch a fly. Excuse me, sir. There's a Musa here to see you. Musa? Really? Send him in. So the guard comes back outside and tells Musa 'alahissalam, hey, you can come in. Musa says no. Harun has to come with me. Uh, no. Slaves are not allowed inside because Harun 'alahissalam is from Bani Israel and Bani Israel are considered slaves. Slaves are not allowed inside. Well, we're not coming because we are like one. Wait. Do you remember hearing that? We are the messenger. We are like we're inseparable. He goes back into Fir'own's office. He's making no progress catching the flies. Sir he's saying that he and his brother have to come in together. Whatever. Let him in, let him in. He's probably going to come in and apologize for all those years that he ran away and he's going to ask for his old room back and he's going to ask how I've been and say sorry and give me a hug or whatever. Let's see what happens. Let him bring his brother. Maybe he brought me a sacrificial gift. Is any of that in the Qur'an? No, we get straight to the point. We don't even-- Allah fast forwards it. Why? Because Allah already said Kalla (كلا). None of that will be a problem. You will get straight to the president of Kufr. You'll have access. You will be inside the Oval Office of Disbelief. You go on ahead. So now he's inside, and Fir'own has now heard. Now, by the way, when you walk into the court of a king, you're supposed to walk in with humility and you're supposed to praise the king. You're supposed to make him feel good about himself. And of course, if Musa 'alahissalam, used to live in that house and he was wanted for murder. He's supposed to walk in and apologize, right? That's the that's the due process of meeting with somebody important. He walks in and he's covered in dirt and he's got his brother with him. He's got a stick in his hand and he walks in and Fir'own is up on his throne, looking down on these two men that are of  no power whatsoever and they walk in and they say إِنَّا رَسُولُ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ We are two inseparable messengers. You can say it like that. We are two inseparable messengers of the true Master of all peoples. What? True Master? Now there are generals and there are security guards that are inside this courtroom. And who do they call Master? Fir'own. And these two walk in and say we are actually here as representatives of the real Master of all nations, not just another nation, all nations, which means including your nation. So they walk into the King's Court and say, Actually, you're you're not the King. And then the second thing they say is by the way, if you know what's good for you
أَنْ أَرْسِلْ مَعَنَا بَنِي إِسْرَائِيلَ You better let the Children of Israel come along with us if you know what's good for you. Now what do you think happens to someone who talks like that to Fir'own?

But watch what Fir'own does. But before I tell you what Fir'own does, I need you to remember something very important, very important. I need you to keep track of what Musa said. Musa 'alahissalam said that we are a messenger of Allah, we're both messengers of Allah. Of the Rabb. And number two, let who go? Bani Israel. Which means Musa came with two points. Please dont forget. Musa walked in with two points, both of which are insulting to Fir'own. Who are you to tell me what to do? Walking in here, making demands? So Fir'own turns back to Musa 'alahissalam and says, أَلَمْ نُرَبِّكَ فِينَا وَلِيدًا Didn't we raise you here as a baby? You talk to me like that? You know an authority who raised you and you lived in their health and he's putting you in your place. That's how he started. وَلَبِثْتَ فِينَا مِنْ عُمُرِكَ سِنِينَ Didn't you live many years of your life here? You're gonna walk in here acting like you own the place? And then he said, 
وَفَعَلْتَ فَعْلَتَكَ الَّتِي فَعَلْتَ And you did that thing of yours that you did. What did he do? He killed someone. He doesn't come out and say you killed a guy. He said that thing you did, that I'm not telling everybody else here. But you know what you did right? وَأَنتَ مِنَ الْكَافِرِينَ
Look at the irony. Fir'own is calling Musa, Kafir. وَأَنتَ مِنَ الْكَافِرِينَ
And the Kafir here means is you're in denial. Are you denying it? Are you denying what you did now? Musa 'alahissalam came with how many points? Please remember how many points? Two points. Fir'own has addressed how many of those points? None of them. Fir'own is a genius man. Evil genius. He completely changed the subject and he came out attacking and he came out and he said, now let's make a list of what He said. Number one, didn't you didn't you weren't you raised her as a baby? Number two. And by by the way, calling him a baby makes him feel like he's nothing. Then didn't you live many years here? He's making him feel like where's your loyalty? This is your house. You should have more respect for the owner of this house. You spent many years here. What's the third thing he brought up? You did that thing that you did. The crime. Are you denying it? وَأَنتَ مِنَ الْكَافِرِينَ Now Musa 'alahissalam has to respond to all of these allegations. All of these things that he has said. But remember that Musa 'alahissalam did not come here for a question/answer session. Musa 'alahissalam came here on a command from Allah to talk about two things. Number one, that he's a messenger, number two, that he needs to let Bani Israel go. But of the things that Fir'own brought up, let's go over them. Number one. I raised you as a baby. Number two. You spent many years here. Number three. You did what you did. Number four. You're denying it. Of these four things What do you think is the most critical problem? Of the things, of the controversies that should be addressed what's the immediate controversy that needs to be addressed right away? Of the Fir'own issues? The murder. So Musa 'alahissalam immediately catches that and he says قَالَ فَعَلْتُهَا إِذًا
He says yes, I did do that. I'm not denying it. I did do it then. Now he doesn't say I killed a person. If Fir'own is not going to come out and say you killed the person, he won't he won't incriminate himself either. So I'll just say I did it. I did it at the time. وَأَنَا مِنَ الضَّالِّينَ
And I was confused at the time. I was lost at the time. فَفَرَرْتُ مِنكُمْ
And as a result of what I did, I ran away from all of you. What? All of you? I thought he was only talking to who? Fir'own. But all of a sudden Musa 'alahissalam decides to talk to everybody in the court. The security guards, the ministers, the viziers, the guy that does the fan thing, everybody. He says I ran away from all of y'all. That's me from Texas talking now. Right? I ran away from all of y'all.
لَمَّا خِفْتُكُمْ I ran away from you people when I used to be afraid of you. What is he saying when he says when I used to be afraid of you? I'm back because I'm not afraid of you anymore. None of you. فَوَهَبَ لِي رَبِّي حُكْمًا And when I left when I ran away from you, my Rabb, my Master gave me firmness and gave me wisdom and gave me solid decision making. وَجَعَلَنِي مِنَ الْمُرْسَلِينَ
And made me from those who are sent. Look at the genius of Musa 'alahissalam. He said says yes, I did commit a murder. But as a result of running away from here Allah made me a messenger. Which was his point number one, wasn't it? He used Fir'own tangent and turned it around and brought back point number one. He didn't get off topic. True genius. He told Allah, Ya Allah, I will get frustrated and my tongue will stop moving. And Allah told him don't worry, I got you. You watch now what Musa 'alahissalam   does. This is this is incredibly ingenious speech. You know what I'm reminded of when I think of Musa 'alahissalam's speech? I'm reminded of Finding Nemo--not Finding Nemo. I'm reminded of Kung Fu Panda two. You know, at the end, when he's getting shot with cannonballs and he takes the cannonball and he. Inner peace. Right back. (السلام الداخل)
You know? He does that. Fir'own is going to shoot at him. And what's he gonna do? Turn it back around to exactly what he needs to say. Now, watch what he does. Musa 'alahissalam. He says,
وَتِلْكَ نِعْمَةٌ تَمُنُّهَا عَلَيَّ And by the way, thanks for that favor you did to me. That is, in fact, a favor you did for me. What is the favor that he did for him? He raised him as a baby. He spent many years there. I acknowledge. Thanks a lot. You provided housing for me. أَنْ عَبَّدتَّ بَنِي إِسْرَائِيلَ Did you provide me that housing so it could justify enslaving all of the Israelites? Whoa, that was point number one. Two. Fir'own tried to change the subject altogether. Musa 'alahissalam said okay. I'll take your change of subject and I'll slap you back with it. And I'll make you feel stupid too, because he's saying thanks a lot for letting me live in your house. I guess that makes it okay to make an entire nation slaves. Does that make sense to you? Because it sounds rather stupid to me. Now, at this point, it's not only two people talking, there are people in the court that are listening to this, and they at this point, are actually kind of confused about what just happened. Because nobody should survive this long with Fir'own. And by the way, if you are, if you have a job under Fir'own, please don't raise your hand. If you have a job under Fir'own, are you happy with your employer? No. So when your employer is getting insulted or owned a little bit, are you a little happy? So the security guard and the fan guy and the minister is going.

I mean, they are kind of getting a kick out of this. This is Nobody gets to talk to him like that and nobody gets to own him like that. Like, oh, snap. If they had, if they had an iPhone back then there would have been a recording going on on YouTube. For real man. They would have been like 'Fir'own owned'. 'Fir'owned' You know? Anyway, so this happens. أَنْ عَبَّدتَّ بَنِي إِسْرَائِيلَ So does that mean you get to enslave the Children of Israel? He brought up his two points again, didn't he? Now, Fir'own doesn't know what to do except he has to engage the actual subject because he knows Musa won't let it go. He won't let those two points go, so he starts with the first point by making fun of it. He says
وَمَا رَبُّ الْعَالَمِينَ What 'Lord of the Worlds'? What Master of all nations? What are you talking about? He doesn't say who is the Master of all nations, he says, What? What Master of all nations? وَمَا رَبُّ الْعَالَمِينَ Musa 'alahissalam is not deterred by the fact that he's making fun of the idea. He simply answers it as though he asked a serious question. Oh, you want to know what 'the Lord of the World' is? I'll tell you. قَالَ رَبُّ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالأَرْضِ وَمَا بَيْنَهُمَا إِن كُنتُم مُّوقِنِينَ It is actually the Master of the skies and the earth and whatever is between the skies and the earth. If all of you are looking to be convinced. He's not talking to the king now he's talking to who? Everybody else. And by the way, that is an insult to a king. When you're in the presence of a king, you only speak with the king. So he's defying the king. He's answering back to the king, and he's saying, by the way, the Master I'm talking about owns the skies and the earth, and whatever is in between. This is absolutely important because the pharaohs, they believed in the sun god. They believed that the god of the sun, the god of the skies is the sun. And the god of the earth are the children of the sun, the pharaohs. Musa 'alahissalam says, by the way my God, my Rabb, He owns the sky and He owns the Earth and He owns whatever is in between. What you got now homie? And the rest of them, are you people looking to get convinced because he seems kind of stupid. So maybe I'll talk to the rest of you إِن كُنتُم مُّوقِنِينَ Fir'own at this point says-- notices something, and this is actually a serious problem for Fir'own. Fir'own realizes that at this point he has talked about another God besides himself a couple of times three times three times, and he expects that the people who work under him believe in himself as God. Yes? And if you genuinely believe in a God and somebody else comes and says no, that's not the real God. Let me tell you about the real God. Shouldn't you be offended? Shouldn't someone from the court get up and say you can't talk about our lord like that? You don't talk to Fir'own that way? Watch your mouth. But the ironic thing is nobody in the entire court of Fir'own got up and said, hey, you better watch it there. Nobody defended Fir'own. As a matter of fact, some people are kind of enjoying this, and some people have become even curious. There is another Rabb? There's a real Rabb, really? Who's this Rabb? Fir'own is very angry now, not only with Musa. Fir'own is also angry with his entire people. Why? Because none of them are angry. And that's frustrating him. So, he says to his crowd he says, قَالَ لِمَنْ حَوْلَهُ أَلا تَسْتَمِعُونَ He said to the all the people around him, 'Are you people not listening to what he's saying?' Why are none of you offended? Hey why, is that you smiling back there? أَلا تَسْتَمِعُونَ
Musa 'alahissalam acts like he didn't even hear it. He keeps going. He says
قَالَ رَبُّكُمْ وَرَبُّ آبَائِكُمُ الأَوَّلِينَ By the way, he's not only your Master. He's the Master of all of you and the Master of your ancestors to the earliest ones. How at this point. He just called I'm not only representing my own Rabb. I'm representing the Rabb of all of you and your ancestors, and they believe that their ancestry was sacred. And he says, actually, my Master owns all of your ancestry too. He's becoming more and more and more offensive by the way. By the way, did he get off of his point? Musa 'alahissalam? Who's thrown off and frustrated? Fir'own is. You see, in the beginning of this conversation, one man walked in from the desert with nothing, with a stick in his hand and his brother, who is considered a slave, and one man was sitting on top of a throne in a position of power. And in the middle of this conversation, it seems like the tables have turned and one man seems to be in a position of controlling the conversation and the other man seems to lose-- be losing control of his own room, doesn't it? Allah is changing-- balancing the-- is moving the balances of power inside the room inside the courtroom. And now he says, قَالَ إِنَّ رَسُولَكُمُ الَّذِي أُرْسِلَ إِلَيْكُمْ لَمَجْنُونٌ
This is Fir'own talking. He goes, he goes to his people, this messenger of yours. Whoa! He called him, not Musa. He said this this this messenger of yours, your messenger. Why did he say that? He said that because it looked like the people in the room were so impressed with Musa 'alahissalam. It almost felt like they have already accepted him as a messenger. So he turns to them and says, by the way, this guy you think is your messenger now.
الَّذِي أُرْسِلَ إِلَيْكُم The one who has apparently been sent to all of you clearly he's not sent to me, is for all of you. Because you seem really interested in him. 
لَمَجْنُونٌ
 He's crazy. Stop listening to him. لَمَجْنُونٌ Musa 'alahissalam very calm
قَالَ رَبُّ الْمَشْرِقِ وَالْمَغْرِبِ وَمَا بَيْنَهُمَا He's also the Master of the East and the West. And whatever is in between the East and the West. إِن كُنتُمْ تَعْقِلُونَ
If you people can understand. Now Musa 'alahissalam has gone way too far. You know why? Because the East and the West is where the sun sets, and the Egyptians used to believe that is the Egyptian empire. The sun rises and sets in the Egyptian Empire, and whatever's in between them is the Egyptian land, right? And he says, my Master is the Master-- true Master of the Egyptian land. So if you guys understand what I'm saying, let's just get rid of this idiot and worship the true God. So he's asking for a military coup in the middle of this conversation. Fir'own catches a wind of it. He realizes this conversation isn't just about some faith. This conversation is becoming dangerous for my kingdom. So he says, قَالَ لَئِنِ اتَّخَذْتَ إِلَهًا غَيْرِي لَأَجْعَلَنَّكَ مِنَ الْمَسْجُونِينَ You, if you take any other God besides me, if you take any other Ilah (اله) besides me, I will make sure you are among the people who are imprisoned. I will make sure of it. I swear to it, I'll throw you in prison, among others. Now it's important that he didn't just say I will throw you in prison, he said I will throw you in prison among others. Among others was important to mention because he wanted to instill fear into the people that are in the room. Don't get any ideas. I better not see a Shahada in this room. You understand? So Musa 'alahissalam realizes that the time to talk is over. If he speaks anymore, what's going to happen? He's going to get arrested. He's going to get hauled away. And by the way, before I go on, I do have to tell you; I got to keep track of time. Man, this is crazy. I don't know how to finish this, but I gotta finish this. This is like awesome. Anyway, what I was going to tell you is that when you have a debate with someone because this is a debate, isn't it? When you have a debate with someone and the one that you are debating says you better shut up or I'll beat you, you better stop talking or I'll throw you in jail. In other words, instead of responding with an argument, you respond with the threat of force when you respond with a threat of force you have actually accepted the defeat of your arguments. You no longer had any arguments. Which is why you could only use the only other weapon you have, which is your force. So the use of force is actually an admission that you are wrong. Because your words weren't enough. You couldn't handle it. So now everybody in the room knows that Fir'own has been defeated. Fir'own has been crushed. in front of his people in his house, in his court. Musa 'alahissalam says 
أَوَلَوْ جِئْتُكَ بِشَيْءٍ مُّبِينٍ Even if I brought you something very clear? I won't talk. I'll just show you something. I've done my work talking to you. I've owned you enough. Will you allow me to show you something? Now Fir'own is a little nervous but he looks around Musa 'alahissalam does not have a suitcase, that he's going to open up and pull out some equipment and show it to him. All he has is a stick in his hand. قَالَ فَأْتِ بِهِ إِن كُنتَ مِنَ الصَّادِقِينَ Please. Yeah. Why don't you show me something if you're telling the truth? What are you gonna show me? فَأَلْقَى عَصَاهُ
 So He threw his staff فَإِذَا هِيَ ثُعْبَانٌ مُّبِينٌ
 And then all of a sudden it turned into a massive python. There are three descriptions of this snake. We need to consider all three of them. Thu'ban (ثُعْبَانٌ) describes a python which is large enough to swallow a goat. Hayya (حية) describes a snake that has its fangs sticking out. Ready to bite. Jaan (جآن) describing a snake that is so terrifying that a person who sees it thinks it's a Jinn. A snake that is massive like a python. Fangs are sticking out. His mouth is open. It doesn't run around with the mouth closed. It runs around with its mouth open and terrifying that when you look at it, you think it might be a Jinn. And by Hayya (حية) it also suggests that it's moving around quickly. Shows up and starts running around in the middle of the courtroom. What happens when people see a snake inside a room? And I'm talking about a small garden snake. What happens when people see a garden snake inside a room? Let me tell you what happens. When I used to teach and when we moved into our building at the dream campus in Texas. We had a little bit of a grasshopper problem. And unfortunately, the grasshoppers really enjoyed the sisters' side. So one time in the middle of class, we're teaching class and one sister sees a grasshopper jump right on her desk. Thirty women went through one exit at one time. That day I knew that when you tell women to exit and they don't exit for 45 minutes it is not because they are incapable of exiting. It is because there are no grasshoppers involved. Because when I tell my wife, hey-- when you go to people's houses-- Hey, time to go home. What happens? OK, okay. Yeah. Okay. 45 minutes later. Hey, can we go home now? Yeah, yeah, I'm just putting my shoes on. Should I move into the car? No, no, you go ahead. Yeah. See how that works out for you. Because a lot of you just go to the car. I'll just wait in the car. Yeah. You sit in the car for about an hour. They're still inside. What? I came I didn't even know you were here. I didn't even know you he had to come. Grasshoppers. Anyway. There's a snake indoors. What is going on inside? Can you imagine? Are people just standing there going, 'Oh, that's quite interesting.' 'This is quite remarkable, really.' No. People are going nuts. The guy that does the fan thing has thrown the fan away. The guy that pours the juice for him has splashed his face. The security guard says 'I quit' and he has run away. The ministers are like. And even Fir'own has probably climbed up on his chair. Right? Musa 'alahissalam, up until now, had owned the entire room with his words. And now he owns the entire room with the miracle that Allah has given him, even way beyond. He owned people's ears. Now he owns their eyes. And as that is going on, وَنَزَعَ يَدَهُ فَإِذَا هِيَ بَيْضَاء لِلنَّاظِرِينَ He took his hand out it turns white and everybody's staring at it. What? What is it? His hand just turned white. Watch out for this thing.

Now all the attention is on Musa, and none of the attention is on Fir'own. This is really bad for for Fir'own. This is really, really bad. This situation needs to be brought under control. Now there are lots of people inside the room, including security guards, janitors but also including important people like ambassadors and administrative-- you know, like viziers, right hand men, generals, right? Important people are there too. Now Fir'own is not so worried if the janitor is impressed, but he's really, really worried if who gets impressed? The generals get impressed because, you know, if you live in a dictatorship, the people that the king fears the most are the people that are the highest up in command because they can slice his neck at any time. He needs to keep them in line. So, he says in the next Ayah-- Allah 'azzawajal describes 
قَالَ لِلْمَلَإِ حَوْلَهُ He spoke exclusively to the chiefs around him, the generals around him. He's not talking to everybody around him. A few hours before we saw
قَالَ لِمَنْ حَوْلَهُ He spoke to everybody around him. But now, he says he spoke to the generals around him and he said 
إِنَّ هَذَا لَسَاحِرٌ عَلِيمٌ This no doubt is clearly (سَاحِرٌ عَلِيمٌ) this is a knowledgeable--this magician knows what he's doing. No doubt about it. So he's calling Musa 'alahissalam a magician. He's good at magic. But that's not enough to impress or get the kings to listen--the generals to listen. He says 
يُرِيدُ أَن يُخْرِجَكُم مِّنْ أَرْضِكُم بِسِحْرِهِ فَمَاذَا تَأْمُرُونَ You know, I think he wants to get you all kicked out of your land by doing his magic. Guys, this is your land. And he wants to kick you out of your land. By the way, this is the first time Fir'own called the land anybody else's land. Because up until now, if you ask him, whose land is it? What does he say? This is my land. 
أَلَيْسَ لِي مُلْكُ مِصْرَ وَهَٰذِهِ الْأَنْهَارُ تَجْرِي مِن تَحْتِي Don't I alone own the Kingdom of Egypt? And these rivers flow beneath my feet. This is mine and mine alone.

And Musa 'alahissalam he looks at this and Fir'own now he's saying, hey, guys, listen. This is our country. We've got to protect our country. He, with his magic, is gonna get you all kicked out of your land. Why don't you tell me what to do? Wait. Fir'own is telling other people to tell them what to do? That is huge. Because that is actually an indication that Fir'own has become weak. He has become weak and he knows if the generals don't feel loyalty towards him now they might revolt against him, so he needs to make them feel special. So for the first time in their lives, the generals are being asked for their opinion. You guys, why don't you tell me what you think? مَاذَا تَأْمُرُونَ
One of the generals probably cried like, you've never ever asked me what I think ever.

So they feel a little close to him, and he's keeping them loyal. And he says to them they say to him
قَالُوا أَرْجِهِ
 Let this go. وَأَخَاهُ
 And let his brother go too. وَابْعَثْ فِي الْمَدَائِنِ حَاشِرِينَ
 and appoint recruiters send recruiters, send gatherers in all the cities. يَأْتُوكَ بِكُلِّ سَحَّارٍ عَلِيمٍ
If he's a magician, bring him bring me expert magicians. Get the best magicians from all the cities. They will bring them back to you. And this way this is how we will respond to his attack. يَأْتُوكَ بِكُلِّ سَحَّارٍ عَلِيمٍ فَجُمِعَ السَّحَرَةُ لِمِيقَاتِ يَوْمٍ مَّعْلُومٍ The magicians started getting gathered. from where? All the different cities. Did it happen overnight? No, it happened over weeks. In those weeks what is Musa doing? Musa 'alahissalam he's not just sent to Fir'own, is he? Who was he sent to? The entire nation. Allah just told him to start with Fir'own. So in the meantime, Musa 'alahissalam is going with his message all over Egypt. By the way, inside the courtroom, there are some people who saw this entire drama happen. And one of the security guards went home and told his wife what happened. You won't know what happened tonight. And of course, the next day, all of Egypt new.

So. Especially because he started with, women I'm telling you something. Don't tell anyone. Because she done call her friend and says, 'Listen, girl, I'm gonna tell you something.' 'Don't tell anybody.' And pretty much all of Egypt knew, but no one told anyone else.

And as this is happening, whose reputation has gone down the drain? Fir'own is humiliated among the people. Oh, my God. As Fir'own walks by somebody says as a joke, 'Snake!' just to mess with him, you know? And in the meantime, the message of Musa 'alahissalam and his reputation is growing, and these magicians have been gathered from everywhere, and the magicians also hear that Fir'own has gone down in the polls. He looks really bad in the elections right now. Everybody is making fun of him. He's not what he used to be. His clout and the fear of Fir'own is kind of dying down among the people. They don't think of him as invincible anymore after getting owned by Musa 'alahissalam  in his own court. So now these magicians, 
فَجُمِعَ السَّحَرَةُ لِمِيقَاتِ يَوْمٍ مَّعْلُومٍ The magicians were gathered for the meeting of a known day; the day of the festival, like their July the Fourth or Independence Day, whatever it was, or I guess, Dependence Day because they are under Fir'own. But anyway, you know 
وَقِيلَ لِلنَّاسِ هَلْ أَنتُم مُّجْتَمِعُونَ And then Fir'own wanted to make sure that this final battle that happens between Musa and these magicians, this should happen in public with all of the country and everybody should look like they love their nation. And they want Musa 'alahissalam to lose even though they don't so he sent soldiers door to door and he told people, soldiers told people, 'Hey, there's a celebration, A national day of national integrity and security where we're going to defeat the threat against this nation, which is Musa.' 'You are invited to this party. Come with your family.'

'Bring a flag with you so you can wave it' وَقِيلَ لِلنَّاسِ هَلْ أَنتُم مُّجْتَمِعُونَ
 It was said to the people 'Are you gathering or what?' They were forced to gather to act like they're nationalistic. By the way, does this happen nowadays? Militaries come door to door to act like everybody's cheering for the new leader so that the media can show that people love the leader. Does this theatrical performance happen in the world today? Oh yeah, oh yeah, it's not new. It's very Fir'ownic. And by the way, people still, even though they act like they're cheering for the king, the reality is nobody likes him and by the way, because Fir'own has been looking pretty bad. And the day was celebrated as this is the day when the magicians will save our nation and they will fight against the threat to our homeland security, they will fly and fight against Musa 'alahissalam, right? When they said that, then they made the magician's look like heroes. Fir'own's, you know, at the election campaign his political campaign was to make the magicians look like the nation's heroes, and they look like such great heroes that they started looking better than Fir'own. So people started saying to themselves in the next Ayah لَعَلَّنَا نَتَّبِعُ السَّحَرَةَ إِن كَانُوا هُمُ الْغَالِبِينَ Maybe we'll end up following the magicians if they win. Like if they win, it doesn't look like Fir'own's gonna have power. It looks like even maybe the magicians are going to have power; now Fir'own keeps an eye on the politics and he keeps an eye on the news. He has spies everywhere. He hears these conversations happening among the people. He's kind of worried about these magicians now because he brought them, but it's not-- it's like maybe after they win this election people might be more interested in them having leadership than even he having leadership, and that's going to create it even a bigger problem than he originally started with. So These, by the way, these magicians also heard that they're becoming pretty popular and they also heard that they are the heroes of the nation that are going to save the nation. So these magicians they're in the locker room after one day of practice and they're talking to each other. 'Man that was a long day. That rope didn't work, you know?' And the other magician says, 'Hey, hey, how much you're getting paid?' He says 'I'm not getting paid.' 'What are you getting paid? I'm not getting paid, either.' I was like, 'Should we ask him to get paid?' 'Last time a guy asked him to get paid. He lost his leg and he gave him his leg as payment.' 'You want to ask him to get paid?' And the third guy goes, 'Hey, hey, wait, wait, wait.' 'He needs us. He can't kill us.' 'He's put our posters everywhere. We're on the Facebook page.' 'He can't get rid of us. If there was ever a time to get money out of Fir'own it is now.' 'We should do it, man. Let's go.' 'And the festival is in two hours.' 'He's he's stuck. Let's let's mafia Fir'own right now.' 'Let's go and kind of squeeze him a little bit.' so 
فَلَمَّا جَاءَ السَّحَرَةُ When the magicians came. قَالُوا لِفِرْعَوْنَ
They said to Fir'own أَئِنَّ لَنَا لأَجْرًا إِن كُنَّا نَحْنُ الْغَالِبِينَ 'Hey, Mister Fir'own, we're gonna get paid, right?' 'If if we're gonna win then we need some motivation and things might work.' 'It might not work out. Something might happen. I don't know.' 'Things happen.' 'Something could go wrong. I need a proper motivation.' 'And so maybe, are we getting paid, isn't it?' Ask a question. Are we really going to get paid now? Now they're trying to, you know, mafia Fir'own. And Fir'own what is he supposed to do at this point? Typically he should if people are trying to extort money from him and he should kill them. But he needs them. So he says to them
قَالَ نَعَمْ 'Yes, yes, I'll give you.' وَإِنَّكُمْ إِذًا لَّمِنَ الْمُقَرَّبِينَ 'And by the way, not only will I give you money, I will make sure that you are among those who are brought close to me.' Meaning I will give you cabinet positions. He offered them political power also. Why? Because before they develop political aspirations of their own and become the opposition party, let's offer them the vice presidency. See the evil genius? So he said, 'Yeah, I'll make you Cabinet ministers and give you money.' Okay, now we're properly motivated. So now they go into battle. They're going into battle. And they-- Musa 'alahissalam says to them 
فَأَلْقَى مُوسَى عَصَاهُ
actually before them فَأَلْقَوْا قَالَ لَهُم مُّوسَى أَلْقُوا مَا أَنتُم مُّلْقُونَ Musa 'alahissalam said to them, 'Throw whatever it is you're going to throw.' Whatever it is, bring it. In other words, he didn't wait for them. He just spoke out. He said, bring whatever is it. What you got? Let's see it. فَأَلْقَوْا حِبَالَهُمْ وَعِصِيَّهُمْ
 So they threw their ropes and their rods وَقَالُوا بِعِزَّةِ فِرْعَوْنَ And they were told because Fir'own was going to pay them and he was going to give them Cabinet positions, remember? So Fir'own told them, 'Listen, I'm paying you and I'm hooking you up, so you need to make me look good out there because I've been looking pretty bad lately.' 'So when you do your thing also kind of put in a word for me. Promoted by our official sponsor Fir'own.' You know? So when they threw their ropes and their rods, they said, 'By the glory of Fir'own by the authority of Fir'own!' إِنَّا لَنَحْنُ الْغَالِبُونَ
 'We are going to be the ones that win.' So they were told to make Fir'own sound good because He's been looking pretty bad. فَأَلْقَى مُوسَى عَصَاهُ Musa 'alahissalam threw staff. Now I'm thinking this is gonna be an amazing battle. It's gonna be like Rocky and that Russian guy that went on forever. 'I must break you.' Remember that guy? That went on forever. But-- so it's gonna go to 20 rounds. But you know what happens?
فَإِذَا Then, all of a sudden, 
هِيَ تَلْقَفُ مَا يَأْفِكُونَ It swallowed everything they had made up in a split second. (إِذَا) means immediately. In other words, people were cheering, 'Yeah!' What just--it's just gone. It's over. It's just-- there was no there was, no time in between. It just ended. And when it ended, the magicians, they're confused at what just happened. And they just drop into Sajda. They just drop into Sajda. Let me tell you what happened with the magicians. There are some rocks when something amazing happens, the rock cracks and water comes out. Do you remember that? That's what the magicians were. They had Iman inside. They just needed a kind of experience that would bring that Iman out. Seeing their work disappear in a split second. These people know magic. And when they know magic, they know what is above and beyond magic. That is above and beyond magic. That is, from Allah. I'm done, bro. I was just-- they just fell into Sajda. Fir'own is confused. Is this a lunch break? What's going on? What are you guys doing? They get up from Sajda that they 
آمَنَّا بِرَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ 'We believe in the Master of all nations and all people.' Fir'own says, 'I know, I know you believe in me, but continue come up with round two.' They say no stupid. 
رَبِّ مُوسَى وَهَارُونَ We believe in the Master of Musa and Harun, not you. Oh, my God. You need to understand the complexity of this problem. Fir'own gathered and forced the entire nation to come out to watch this event. And he told the people, he put millions of dollars into this campaign telling people you must pay attention to the magicians. You must pay attention to the magicians. No matter what you do. Don't listen to Musa. Listen to the magicians. And then he forced everybody to come and listen to the magicians and the magicians came out and said, 'Hey, everyone, let's believe in Musa.'

In front of Fir'own. And he's like, 'What? My entire campaign. What are you doing?' Now the only one left to defend his campaign is himself. No one else is on his side. Fir'own is the only one alone now. So Fir'own uses the only tactic he has. He says قَالَ آمَنتُمْ لَهُ قَبْلَ أَنْ آذَنَ لَكُمْ 'You believed in him before I gave you people permission? Oh.' إِنَّهُ لَكَبِيرُكُمُ
'He is your big chief. I see. I see. I see.' الَّذِي عَلَّمَكُمُ السِّحْرَ
The one who taught you magic. He's the one who taught you magic. He knows that Musa is not the one who taught them magic. He knows that they learned they learned magic from their own cities. They weren't even in contact with Musa until the day of. But he's making this up for who? For the crowd. فَلَسَوْفَ تَعْلَمُونَ
 You people will find out soon enough. أُقَطِّعَنَّ أَيْدِيَكُمْ وَأَرْجُلَكُم مِّنْ خِلافٍ وَلَأُصَلِّبَنَّكُمْ أَجْمَعِينَ 'First, I will cut your right arms and left legs or left legs and right-- right legs and left arms; cut you off from the opposite sides.' 'Then I will hang you and crucify you all together.' He said this to them. You know why he's not worried about them. They're going to die anyway. He's worried about leaving an example for the public. So he wants to leave them hanging in public so nobody else gets any ideas. And these magicians, they hear this. And you know what they say? Once the water comes out, once the Iman comes out it makes you rock solid in split seconds. They turn back to Fir'own and they say 
لا ضَيْرَ
 No problem. إِنَّا إِلَى رَبِّنَا مُنقَلِبُونَ We're going to return to our Master anyway. What you gonna do? You can't hurt us anymore. I'm gonna stop here. But I will tell you I shared this dialogue with you to give you just the overall goal of Divine Speech. The goal of Divine Speeche is to illustrate to you that the Qur'an is a living text. That the book describes the narrative in a way that takes you inside a world. You get inside this world and it is an incredible place. And it is unfortunately in my in my personal opinion, so underestimated, so underestimated. The mission of the organization that I started and that I have I am blessed to have so many colleagues in now. Alhamdulillah. The mission of this organization is to make the Qur'an accessible to everybody. And to make the beauty of the Qur'an known to all the Muslims and all the non-Muslims. My eventual goal is to make Arabic easy to learn for all human beings on this planet. That's what I'd like to do. I would like to make Arabic accessible Qur'an accessible, not only in English but in Bahasa and in Bangla and in Somali and in Swahili and in Turkish and in German. I want it in every language. I am so very grateful for the love and the appreciation you guys have given myself and all of my team. We're so super grateful to all of you. As you are leaving please do check out Bayyinah TV booth and finally, if Allah does not give us a chance to meet again, I hope you and I meet in a much, much, much better place. بارك الله لي ولكم
والسلام عليكم ورحمة الله وبركاته
