بِسْمِ اللَّهِ الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيم اَلْحَمْدُ لِلَّٰهِ وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى رَسُولِ اللهِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ اَجْمَعِينَ اما بعد I love Imam Hamiduddin Farahi, I'm going to start with that He presented one of the most beautiful arguments that just moved me to tears. Uh, he wrote a book called Dalail ul Nizam Evidences for Coherence. Coherence, meaning the order of the Koran. He wrote a commentary on the Koran based on his theory on how the Koran is organized. He was only able to write nine Surahs worth of commentary before he passed away. Okay, he predominantly wrote in Arabic. Um, there are now to date, 45 manuscripts of his that have been found. I met a Sudanese brother when I was in Malaysia that was actually doing a PhD on Farahi in Jordan, even though he's an Indian scholar. But he went to India and he collected as many manuscripts as he could, and he found some written in Persian. He actually wrote briefly in Hebrew also, and he's got one or two papers in English I did not even know about. But now there's a PhD paper being worked may Allah help him, you know, complete that task. But a few, I mean we we heard, I heard in my early studies of the Koran I heard a lot about Hamiduddin Farahi but I did not get exposed to any of his work. Not none of it was commonly published until I had the honor of meeting um, Dr Akram Nadawi in Oxford. And when I met him for the first time, um, I asked him some really hard questions, and he just dropped these bombshell answers on me in his living room like it's nothing. And I was just floored by him and he says, Yeah, you know, you haven't read this book. I was like, No, there's a book? And he handed me a Array-us-Saheeh Fi Man Huwaz Zabeeh which was a remarkable, just to give you an idea of the kind of man Hamiduddin Farahi was Rahimahullah He wrote a book on who was actually to be slaughtered in the story of Abraham in the story of Ibrahim. Was it Isma'il or Ishaq? The Muslim majority Muslims believe it's Isma'il, and majority of Jews and Christians basically believe it's who? Ishaq and you would think, Who cares? Actually, you should care, because the Christians and the Jews believe that it's Ishaq and therefore the Children of Ishaq were blessed because they were chosen for sacrifice and the other lineage of Abraham was cursed. And since the Children of Ishmael are cursed Mohammed, we don't say they don't say ﷺ  we do ﷺ is from the cursed lineage. Therefore, his religion has to be of the devil, and all of that goes back to what? Who was sacrificed to them? They built the entire mythology on that. Now he what he does this this incredible man, he writes a three part book, Part one. The story of the Sacrifice in the Hebrew Tawrat with the Hebrew citations and the linguistic analysis proving that it was Makkah and that it was Isma'il from the Hebrew Bible with an entire root analysis of every word that's there and showing how you took Makkah called it Sakkah and showing how you took, uh, you said you he took him to sacrifice right by the Temple of Solomon. Hold on. Solomon was many generations later what you're talking about? But and then but you kept you accidentally kept Sakkah, which was full of black rock and the barren desert with a spring of water. Uh, yeah, Yeah, That doesn't sound like no Jerusalem because that's lush. So he he took the because he was a master student of the Hebrew language. He did that in his first third of the book. second-third of the book, he quote, collected scholars of the Jewish tradition and the Muslim tradition showing that it was actually already held by a huge numbers of them that was, in fact, Isma'il 'alaihisalam And then he showed the evidence from the Koran, as in three parts the correct position on who was to be slaughtered. He felt it was important enough anyway, so he wrote on the coherence of the Koran. And he, uh, if you've heard me give Khutbah right before you fall asleep when I do the Arabic portion of the Khutbah, I often cite the Arabic that he praised Allah with in the opening of his book, Dalail ul Nizam And the reason I do that is because he would praise Allah in a way that is in accordance with the subject he's dealing with. Okay, so he said in that I'm quoting bits and pieces of it اَلْحَمْدُ لِلَّٰهِ , which everybody should know praise and gratitude belongs to Allah. الثاني الخلق على احسن نظام و على اكمل نظام و احسن قوام, he says. All praise and gratitude belongs to Allah the One Who crafts creation in the most perfect order. And then he says, و احسن قوام and the most beautiful upright form. الواضع الاشياء في اجدر مقام the One Who places things in the most appropriate of all places and then he says,
وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ  على المؤيد بأبلغ كلام and I send prayers and I send salutations upon we normally say رسول الله ﷺ  he says instead, المؤيد بأبلغ كلام I send salutations upon the one who was aided with the most eloquent of all speech, who was aided with the Koran, the most eloquent of all speech. كبدر تجلى من بين الغمام The speech and the Prophet that was so distinct, like a full moon that appears from the middle of the clouds. لهداية كآفة الانام for the guidance of all manner of creation وعلى آله و الصحابه الكرام and I send prayers and salutations on his family and his noble companions, الى مدل يالي والايام So long as the days and nights come to pass, و هذا الكتاب افردناه على دلائل النظام and this is a book that we dedicated to sequence in the Koran. But how did he praise Allah? My Allah, who loves everything in order in sequence, and the Prophet who was given the most eloquent of speech. I'm already giving you hints on how he's going to elaborate his spiritual argument. His spiritual argument was actually already captured in the way he praised Allah like he didn't have to go further. But I'm gonna I'm so in love with how he writes I'm going to read this stuff to you guys. I want to read to you how he wrote, uh, and I've taken snippets of it. The book is worth a read. It really is worth a read. Uh, Dalail ul Nizam for those of you that are Arabic students, it's beautiful Arabic. It really is, اما بدات الهداية فتربية اخص صفات الانسان و هو البيان the beginnings of guidance have to do with how advanced human beings are and the special qualities that human beings have. Allah guides human beings differently than he guides cows and birds and bees and trees. Allah guides human beings differently. And the most salient feature of human beings receiving guidance is their ability to clearly communicate al-Bayan the fact that we're able to communicate because all of Allah's guidance comes to us by way of what? Communication, speech فان الانسان لم يكمل صفاته العقلية والفؤادية الا ان بعد الا بعد ان سار ذا نطق مبين Human being, the human being's capability to get guidance spiritually, emotionally, intellectually could never have happened if he wasn't capable of clear speech
فهذه البداية تسوق على تلك النهاية So amazing that beginning led to that end. And what's he talking about? Then he says, الرَّحْمَنُ. عَلَّمَ الْقُرْآنَ. خَلَقَ الإِنسَانَ. عَلَّمَهُ الْبَيَانَ Check this out. Allah created Adam 'alaihisalam that was the beginning. What does Allah say about Adam 'alaihisalam? وَعَلَّمَ ءَادَمَ ٱلْأَسْمَآءَ كُلَّهَا He taught Adam 'alaihisalam the names of things. Allah taught Adam language. عَلَّمَهُ الْبَيَانَ That was the beginning of our story. That was the beginning of guidance. And what was the final guidance? Koran itself, which is al-Bayan هَٰذَا بَيَانٌ لِّلنَّاسِ عَلَّمَهُ الْبَيَانَ
هَٰذَا بَيَانٌ لِّلنَّاسِ هذا البداية تسوق على تلك النهاية What began with Adam 'alaihisalam reached its climax with the coming of the Koran, it's as though Allah gave us the gift of speech so that one day we could be worthy of the Koran, that's the first argument he is making. Then he says, let's talk a little bit about language itself. Speech itself. الكلام لا يفهم الا بعد معرفة تركيب اجزاءه وتناسب بعضه  ببعض he says, speech can never be understood unless you recognize how its components have been organized and how parts of it correspond to other parts of it. وبالجملة محال ان تفهم كلام من دون ان تعلم النسبة بعضها الى بعض It's absolutely impossible, absolutely impossible that you can understand what somebody is saying if one thing they say is disconnected with the next thing they say. If I told you 10 sentences and one of them is about the weather in Phoenix and the next one's about the stock market in New York and the next one, it's like I'm switching radio stations, man, nobody can understand what I'm talking about. I'm psychotic if I do that, there has to be a connection. Otherwise, speech is not considered logical, coherent, understandable, effective. It can't be because you're all over the place. You know what if you go to like a mental institution and people are talking about all kinds of things, like the aliens are coming man, nice shirt. You don't do that. because they're jumping from thing to thing. That's it's not understandable what they're trying to get across. فان اخرت كل جزء طويل على حدته غاب عن بعض معنه ثم ان قصرت ان فهم نسبة اجزاء هذا لاجزغاب انك طرف آخر And also, if you took one part of the speech, somebody was trying to get a point across. You heard the first minute, and you didn't listen to the rest. Are you gonna get the point he was saying? You might even miss out the point that they were trying to make in that first minute because they were coming to the punch line later on. Right. So you're saying even if you took some part of speech and not others of the same speech, you're gonna be missing out. It's always going to cause you a loss in understanding انك تنقص من فهمك شيء فشيء
something or the other will always be missing in your understanding if you're always looking at partial views. he's trying to get across that if that becomes your view of the Koran, You're going to look at these three Ayat in this Surah of 112 Ayat or 110 Ayat you're just gonna look at these three Ayat and you're going to look at them regardless of what's going on in the other 110. Something is definitely going to be missing because Allah decided that should be one speech. I'm not saying you shouldn't look at one Ayah. I am. But in my own, because I have I have my own Koran studies are so impacted by his work, um, I can no longer say I'm going to do an in depth study of this Ayah. I can't do it. Somebody says, could you look into this Ayah for me? like it's gonna take me a while. Why is it gonna take it's just one Ayah, Why is it gonna take you a while? Because I got to look into the whole Surah and then figure out, Where is this Ayah in that Surah? And what's it doing in respect to the rest of this Surah? Then I'll go into the Ayah. I can't go into the Ayah by itself. Allah put it as part of a larger speech. If you and I don't do that with any other speech, can you take the speech of a speaker, the quote of an article and take one sentence and say I'm going to write an entire paper on that one sentence in that article? Is it possible that at the expense of the rest of the passages that followed or preceded that there may be something missing in your understanding? Is that possible? Is it possible somebody could accuse you of taking this out of context? As a matter of fact, in our speech, let me give you a simple example. If I'm talking to you, I'm talking to my friend, I say, I'm gonna kill you, man. Stop it. And then we keep on talking about whatever my favorite ice cream flavor is or something else. And somebody takes my one quote. I'm gonna kill you, man. And now they're taking me to court because I threatened them to murder. What's missing? Context. When you take things out of context, you don't look at what came before and what came after. Then there is something going to be missing in your understanding. You can look at the words. You can look at the dictionary. You can read the translation, you get what it says, but you're not going to get what it says because it was part of a speech. It's part of a larger, continuous speech. By the way, Koran, the name Koran, is argued to be from two origins. We recite it قُرْآن and another Qira'a of it is also, قُرَآن, without the Hamza and that comes from قرن and قرن means to flow. The Koran has a flow, okay, and that's why it's actually one of the reasons it's called the Koran is because it flows, and when you're talking about flow, you cannot tell somebody's got flow by them dropping one line. It's when they drop line after line after line. Then you can recognize what? flow. Okay, anyhow So he then argued that because he was talking, he had Koran students, you know, um and this is in the late 1800s. He had Koran students and he was emphasizing to them, ponder the Koran, understand the structure of a Surah, look at the Surah holistically, really reflect on it, let me engage the book and his fellow scholars were teaching fiqh, were teaching 'aqeeda, were teaching Hadith they were teaching other, noble Islamic sciences. And some of them were starting to get annoyed with him. And they started saying, Why are you wasting students' time, contemplating the order of Ayat? they have Usulul Fiqh to learn man. They have important practical things. They have to teach people, you know, you're keeping them busy with this. And they would criticize him and his students. So he decided to write a little blurb about his critics, his friends, but his critics. And I told you, he doesn't hold pull punches. So I'm gonna read some of that to you. من اضر ما يظنه المتغافل عن علم     النظم and one of the most harmful things that people that are just completely oblivious to this knowledge this area of inquiry of coherence and structure and order and holistic view of the Koran انه مع اشكاله و صعوبته و كونه من مزلات الاقدام ليس من مهمات الدين It's because it's so hard and it's so not obvious and there's so many possible ways for you to slip up in trying to figure out what's going on in a Surah. This can't possibly be one of the fundamental things to do in the religion. This can only be an extracurricular activity فلا بد ان يعتني بما هو اهم و انفع it's more important that we should concern ourselves with more important matters, study 'Aqeeda study Fiqh, study what's Fardh, study what's halal, study what's haram That's more important. Why are you getting busy studying, How is this Ayah connected to that Ayah? Who cares? That's what they, his critics say. من حسن اسلام المرء ان تركه مالا يعنيه They quote the hadith of the Prophet ﷺ the beauty of the Islam of a person is leaving alone what's not your concern. What is your concern? الم connected to ذَٰلِكَ ٱلْكِتَٰبُ لَا رَيْبَ ۛ فِيهِ What does it cost if you didn't know that? it's no big deal. Leave it alone فتتبع أن نقاط اللطيفة في نظم الكلام واستنبات وجوه البلاغ فيه يكون من اشغال الفرصة he says, looking for the coherence of this speech and analyzing the subtle beauty and eloquence and rhetoric and linguistic wow moments in the middle of those Ayat this is just extra activity. This is just a waste of time. Why are you spending time on this? فمن جعل ذلك من مهمات العلوم And whoever would dare consider that a fundamental exercise of the religion of important knowledge and important sciences و حثت الطلة على تشمر له and then on top of that, he's encouraging students to involve themselves in this kind of inquiry. فقد منعهم عن الواجب this kind of person is actually preventing them from doing the mandatory things in Islam. Taking them, deviating them. This is a form of deviation. وقلب الامر he is changing the religion واخل بنظام التعليم and he is corrupting the education system. We have an education system where we teach, you know, Arabic, then we teach Usul, then we teach we're gonna read this one Tafsir and we're gonna read the books of Hadith and we have a system. You're destroying the system. Why are you messing it up? This is how things are supposed to be. Uh, so he says, و قد سمعنا هذه الشبه من بعض من اعترف وجود النظام And I've heard this kind of a criticism, even from those who acknowledge fine the Koran is coherent. Fine the Ayat are connected. So what? Why are you so concerned with this? Why is this a big deal? وقال ان القرآن انما نزل للعمل به They will say to me, Koran only came so you act on it. و الاستهدى بنوره And it came so you can get guidance from its light, 
لا للاشتغال باستنبات باستنبات الطاءفه ونقاط بلاغته it didn't come so you busy yourself trying to find these subtle connections. And look at that word and that word. And just that's not why the Koran came. Why are you busying yourself with that? And he responds الطاءف القرآر و وجوه الإعجاز ليست مقصود لذواتها و لا هي غاية ما تفوز به غاية ما تفوز به The subtleties of the Koran and finding these miraculous coherence you know observations. These are not the goal at all. This is not why I'm advocating that this is important. This is not how you will achieve success anyway. و لا هي غاية ما تفوز به They're not the goal by which you will achieve success بل ليست معرفة النظام نظام الكلام و روابط معنى الآيات ما هي طلبتنا I'm not even saying we should look for coherence in the speech or how the Ayat and their meanings are connected to each other I'm not even saying that's what we're seeking. That's not even what we're after, كل ذلك يأتيك غرضا All of that comes to you as a consequence that those observations are a byproduct of something far more important. What does he say that far more important is? انما المقصود هو تدبر في معنى القرآن الذي سيق اليه بيانه the ultimate goal is contemplating the meanings of the Koran itself, whose clarity can only be understood by its context. We're not looking for some fun intellectual exercise. We're looking for the actual quest to contemplate the words of Allah which have deliberately been placed in a context. Okay, then, he says انما هي الوصيلة اليه and that contemplation, and looking at the book as a whole is the only way by which we can properly reflect on the Koran فهل تظن انك في غنا عن ذلك do you really think you don't? No, you don't need that. You don't need to contemplate Allah's words? وان ليس لك حاجة الى ما انزل الله اليك  And you don't have any need for what Allah revealed to you  you? من عيون الحكمة والنور والشفاء from the wellsprings of  wisdom, and light and healing, he's saying this entire thing is, at the end of the day, not an intellectual but a spiritual exercise. It's Tadabbur into the Koran. I want to extract light from this book و هل ترتدي ان تجعل نفسك ممن يظن ان الكتب الفقه قد تكلفت بما أمر الله والنهى Are you from the kinds of people who think that the books of Fiqh and he's picking on Fiqh But I'm not okay, chill out okay, he's saying, Are you from the kinds of people who think the books of Fiqh have already extracted everything that needed to be extracted from Allah's book? So there's no reason for us for فلم تبقى لنا حاجة الى القرآن So now we don't need to contemplate Koran anymore because everything practical has already been what? extracted. So why why do you need Koran? It's just references, Daleel for the fatwa. That's all it is now, you don't need anything else و أليس ان ظواهر الاحكام And by the way, when that happens, when the religion is reduced to the laws that have been extracted from the word of Allah, then you know what to do and what not to do. The only benefit of Koran left practically for the Muslim is what? I'm going to recite it for Ajr. Is then part of the culture of the Muslims to contemplate the Koran? No, because it has no practical value. Practically I need to know Halal Haram. Practically I need to know just you know what I believe and  what I don't believe. The books of 'Aqeeda have already extrapolated what I believe in and what I don't believe. The books of Fiqh have already extrapolated what I should do and what I shouldn't do. So I'm covered. Now the only purpose of Koran left is reference for those two things. Evidence for those two things, or I'm going to recite it for Ajr. And that's it. What else is left? So then, he says, then he asked the question, making his argument He says, أليس ان ظواهر الاحكام منوت بعقاءد والنيات Isn't it true that the outwardly of all of our actions prayer, Hajj, Zakat, eating halal, whatever are directly tied to beliefs and intentions? Isn't it true that everything outwardly we do is tied to something inwardly? And then he says, وهما منوتتان ببواطن الاخلاق And isn't it true that both of those things our beliefs, our intentions, our worldview and our observations of the outside are directly tied to our mannerisms, our character? Our morals, our moral view? وكذلك صلاح الافراد منوت بصلاح الجماع Isn't it true that when a person becomes reformed, that is the only way a society can become reformed? You may not see his argument yet, but you will. و هو بأصول خفية من الحكمة و التدبير And don't you realize that a person can never be reformed until they go to the very essence of wisdom? Nobody will become a better person by learning what's Wajib and what's Fardh and what's Makruh and what's Haram? Nobody will become a deeply connected to Allah by knowing which group was deviant, in which way. Nobody's gonna how are you going to connect to the inner wisdom of our faith? What's the only wellspring for that? That would be the word of Allah The inner change can only come from the word of Allah وكذلك متى كان مجرى امور على السداد كما كما يكون مجرى التبيع على الصحة قلَّ احتياجنا الى اصول الاصلاح وتدبير الاخلاق و تصليح النيات he says, Listen, if things were the way they're supposed to be and everybody is doing well and we are naturally good, spiritually healthy people, then we don't need to go back to the original source. We're fine. ولكن, however, اذا غلب الفساد when corruption and mischief has dominated society وفسدت العقاءد and beliefs are all over the place و نغلت القلوب 
and the hearts are sleeping. وتبدد من الملة نظامها and the nation the religion its order its harmony has already been depleted. و زاغ من الشريعة قوامها and the Sharia has lost its uprightness. People are quoting, quoting Fatawa and quoting what's Fardh and what's Wajib or citing the text at each other. But the morality behind it is gone was stuck والستهوز سلطان البدعة and the the authorities, cultural authorities, economic authorities, political authorities are making up new things about the religion and we're just following them والاحوا and empty whims اشتد احتياجنا الى الحكمة الهية our need for divine wisdom becomes more and more intense. So you tell me, are we in times where we are in less need of contemplation of Koran or more need? و معرفة طريق الشفاء And to discover the way by which we can heal والخروج من فتن الشقاق في الدين And to find a way out of the trial, the tribulation of the religion being torn apart. One holds onto this, one holds onto that, one says this scholar and if you don't follow this scholar, you're going to hell. one says this book and if you don't hold on to this book, you're going to hell. Who's holding onto Koran? Who is bringing people together? You know, وَٱعْتَصِمُواْ بِحَبْلِ ٱللَّهِ جَمِيعًا where did that go? The only way out of that is go back to the book. حين التبس طريق  When the road becomes confusing وأعجب كل ذي راي برايه and everyone who has an opinion is really impressed with their own opinion. وضرب الجهل برهانه and ignorance has already caused, you know, great famine in society. ورفظ الاستهدى بالقرآن الحكيم and seeking guidance from the Koran, has been outright refused. Don't do it. He's actually he was pretty harsh in other places, like he's telling his 'Alim friends you're 'Ulama and you're telling your students not to contemplate Koran? like he's really harsh on them. Guidance extracting guidance from the Koran is being turned down? الذي عرفه الله تعلى بالنور والشفاء the same Koran that Allah Himself defined as light and healing? و عشو عن الحكمة التي اوضاعه الله تعالى And they feel not in need of the wisdom that Allah Himself endowed the book with? كتابه فهل يطلع عليها من يمر به This is really beautiful and painful. فهل يطلع عليها من يمر به كالراكب الصريح You really think that divine wisdom, Allah's wisdom somebody will come come upon it if they're passing by the Koran like a commuter who's in a hurry? كالراكب الصريح You think you're gonna just breeze through Koran and Allah's wisdom will dawn on you? او الريح العاصف or a wind that just passes by? This is This is the relationship you want with the Koran, and you're gonna get wisdom out of it? ولولا ذلك فلماذا امرنا الله And if that wasn't the case, if it wasn't the case that we had to stop and reflect and dive into the book, how come Allah commanded us, امرنا الله تعالى بالتدبر في كتابه والتفكر في آياته How come He commanded us to do Tadabbur in the Koran and think deeply about His Ayat? وان لم يكن هناك معارف مكنونة فبما يجع التدبر والتفكر فيه And if there weren't things to discover, if there were things, if everything was just on the surface, why do you have to contemplate? If something is immediately understandable at face value Hey, by the way, class is at six pm Let me contemplate on that. If everything is obvious at face value, there's no reason for what? Contemplation, deep thinking. Why would Allah command you and me to contemplate deeply and by the way, literally the word Tadabbur I'm distracting from him. I'm giving you my own spiritual insight on to this. I'm adding on to this. Tadabbur comes from the word Dubur. Anyone know what Dubur is? Yeah, Back Tadabbur is the exercise of finding out what is on the back of these words what is behind them. This is the surface of the words. And behind them is a wisdom and a meaning and a guidance that applies to me. That opens up light inside of my heart when I discovered and that does not come Tafa'ul suggest you are exhausting yourself to find out what is behind these words these words that Allah has said There's a guidance behind them. They're opening a door to meaning a healing, a council that I'm in need of. I'm gonna dive into each word. I'm gonna dive into each Surah. When I share with you tomorrow the meanings of Surah you'll see it very differently. Inshallah. I gave you some things about Surah. I told you one of its meanings is Manzila , right? A floor part of other floors. That's his relation to other Surahs. When you look at the word Surah on its own, Oh my God. Yeah, what a surah means And then what an Ayah means and why I Ayat and Surah are connected to each other, you know. So now he says this and then now this this so far is not his spiritual argument. So far, I'll summarize. All he's saying is, when you don't do this, you're going to be in a spiritual crisis. This is not the reason to do it. This is this is the cost of not doing it. Okay, now he this is his spiritual argument اصله النظر في جميع ما حولك و فوقك و تحتك من الكءنات Why don't you take a good look at everything above you, everything around you, everything under you? Of all things that Allah has made, all of existence. Just take a good ponder everything else. Forget pondering Koran. Ponder everything else. تجدها مركبات و مصنوعات للانتفاع و تمتع You'll find two things. Things are organized. Things are compiled, one on top of the other so that you can benefit from them and you can enjoy beauty in them. Look at a single leaf and find the symmetrical veins on its on its face. Look at look at a zoomed in picture on a single ice crystal. Just look at that. Look at the patterns inside of a flower. Look at what honey bees do when they make their combs. Just look at all of creation. Look, just ponder. Look, become a physicist and try to observe what's happening at subatomic levels. Become a biologist and understand the order and the symmetry and the beauty of the design of something like the heart. Or some or the way in which a baby is formed. Just ponder over this and look at everything around you, and you will find remarkable method, symmetry, system, order down to our genetics and genetic code. If one piece of the code is moved over from the other, life is no longer there. Everything is in order, and the order gives it life. و تجد للتركيب حظا عظيما في منافعها و محاسنها He keeps saying two things. You'll find order has everything to do with two things. The way it produces benefit and the way it makes it beautiful. Benefit and beauty, benefit and beauty, benefit and beauty. Koran by the way, when we get there, I'll break the surprise. Koran by the way, there are two things that will soften your heart its benefit and it's beauty because human beings are drawn to beautiful things. And when you see something beautiful, your heart softens and you see a beautiful baby, your heart softens beautiful you see a beautiful mountain your heart softens. It's softens sorry I said softens it softens. And this this these two things Manafi' Mahasin, Manafi' Mahasin this is the key to Tadabbur this is what softens  the heart بل لو شئت قلت
 and you could even go as far as to say ان التركيب هو اصل ماهية كل شيء you could even say that order, sequence, arrangement is the essence of the existence of all things around us. All things around us, down to your fingertips, every bone organized the way it is. Otherwise, it wouldn't be a finger. down the way my eyes are organized on my head. There's there's an arrangement that Allah put in inside of our bodies. و حقيقة وجوده And this is the reality with which it exists. If you didn't have the same order, you wouldn't it wouldn't it wouldn't be the same thing anymore. فك عنك التركيب ينقلبك انه لا شيء get rid of the order it's as though it's not even there. It's not. It's nothing now. ولذلك ليس صنع و كمالها الا في صحة التركيب And that's why craftiness, craft, artistry, beauty and it's perfection can never exist without the existence of order, وإنما يمدح الصانع او يعاب حسب اتقان التركيب A maker, a designer, a manufacturer will only be praised in accordance with the perfection that they brought to sequence, order. It could be the colors they organize together. It could be the architectural marvel they put together. It's always about order او ضعفه Or it could be they're criticized for the weakness of order and harmony and design. We give two kids a bunch of Legos and one makes a work of art, and the other one makes a إِنَّا لِلّهِ وَإِنَّـا إِلَيْهِ رَاجِعونَ You know, You could tell who's got an art who's got an artistic sense. You can tell immediately و كذلك كل عمل و تدبير انما ينجه او يخسر من جهة تركيبية من جهة تركيبه Everything you do is either a success or failure, depending on how organized it was. If you had an organized plan for your work, if you had an organized plan for your business, if you had an organized plan for your study and you executed by organization, if you had discipline at this time this, then this, then this, then this. If you followed a plan, if you followed an organization, you'll get there. If you don't follow a plan, you won't get there whether it's sports or business or, you know, economics or studies, whatever it is, unless you have order, you can't get there. That's true of anything. You want to get better? You want to get more fit? You got to discipline your diet. You got to discipline your body. You got to wake up at a certain time, go to sleep at a certain time. You want results? You want things to get more beautiful, more improved? Order is always the prerequisite. Always. He hasn't even made his argument yet. la, فهذا اصل راسخ لا يخفى على اولى النهار This is a truth, a deep truth that anyone who possesses true, like a thinking mind, can never deny. at the heart of everything is order. Then he's this is his argument. ان تبينت لك ذلك او تلك If all of this became clear to you, if what I've said so far makes sense to you التفت الى موضوع التركيب في الكلام Why don't you turn your attention to the subject of order and harmony when it comes to speech itself? when it comes to speech. فانه شيء مألف ركب بعض ببعض Speech is essentially something that is composed of one part put on top of another, put on top of another, put on top of another in a certain order. و لم يسرد معنى الا بعد تركيبه And it can't possibly have any meaning unless there is order to it فانما هي الصورة التركيبية ما دلَّ على معنه It's actually the picture painted by a certain order of words that tells you what the author is saying, what the speaker is saying. الا ترى ذلك عيانا في اللفظة الواحدة have you not observed that inside of a single word one word made up of spellings? You mess up the order of the spelling of those words, does it have meaning anymore? The gift of language it depends entirely on the gift of order. The word for language that's used in the Koran among the words is by Bayan Bayan comes from Baana Yabeenu. Baana means to separate things, separate things so that letter one is first, two is second If I don't separate my letters, you can't understand what I'm saying. If I didn't separate my discussion with you today with, I forgot what I started with can you remind me? Historical argument, then textual argument. Now we are in? If I didn't organize it, you would be all over the place. Organization is necessary for communication. The more organized, you attend somebody's speech, the more organized their speech was like, Man, that was I understood everything. And then you go somewhere and the speech is all over the place and guess what you get out of it? There are friends you have that have the attention span of a squirrel. When they talk to you, they talk to you about everything at once. It's like they have their foot on an escalator that's going up and the other foot on an escalator that's going down when they're speaking with you and you, you literally have to say, just wait wait wait, we can we talk about one thing right now? Because as you're talking about one thing, they go to this, this, this, this this, all over the place. The more unorganized a person's thoughts are, the more unintelligent we assume them to be. Part of the beauty of speech, part of the power of speech is how a point is made. How you get somebody to their, you know, effective comedian gets you there and then drops the punch line. If he messes up the order, gives the punch light and that the the cow said, wait what cow? What are you? You start with the punch, you messed everything up. Order is everything. And so he says and so he says about this one word فانما صارت كلمة ذات معنى بما وضعت حروفها على ترتيب خاص وكذلك الحال لتركيب الكلمات في الجملة And that's how a single word wouldn't make sense without order and words put together in a certain order only then can they make a sentence. And if you mess the order up, Bob punched Joe. Everybody understood that. Let me mess up the order. Joe punched Bob. The wrong guy's going to jail now. You can't mess the order of the words. It'll change the meaning all together won't it? So, he says, if order is so important in all of human communication and the more organized and eloquent a speaker is, eloquence is only a function of how organized the speech is. How well put together a speech is. Then how dare you say the speech of Allah does not have heavenly order? The one who ordered all things it's just kind of assumed that His book will be missing order? While He put the order on the tips of your fingers, He put the order of every cell in your body. He gave you the ability to order your PhD thesis, but His own thesis is it has no order? He gave the most remarkable authors in the world's history the mind to be able to produce their volumes of work in the order that they produce them. That's all the intellectual gifts of humanity that we've been able to produce are because of order. And yet the giver of the greatest of all speech would ignore order in His own speech? How can you accept that? This is his spiritual argument. This is what I wanted to leave you guys with today. The spiritual argument presented by Hamiduddin Farahi. How can you deny heavenly order in Allah's words? It's Allah's words. That would be the summarized version. Just say it in all caps, It's Allah's words. How are they not organized? Everything He does is with balance, is with harmony, is with order, is with purpose. Now, I'm gonna give you a quick outline of what we're gonna do Inshallahu ta'ala three items are done, one item is left. And that's the big giant item, which is what? case studies. So here's how case studies are going to be organized. There are actually 12 discussions I have to have with you over the over the weekend. Uh, and they are broken up into, um I think it's four major parts. I'll just tell you the major parts. I won't bore you with all 12. I've bored you enough with other things. Um, let me just open that up, okay, here we are. First, we're going to look at a few case studies of seemingly unrelated verses. So Ayat are talking about something, and all of a sudden they're talking about something completely different. And you're like, what just happened? So we're gonna look at a few cases of that. We're going to discuss that. Because, of course, if you're talking about koran having heavenly ordered, the first criticism will be, What about this place? This has nothing to do with that. Total change of subject. So we're gonna see how those things are connected in a in a divine way. The second discussions we're going to have are going to be how passages in the Koran are organized. Groups of Ayat together, how they come together to make a cohesive argument. the third. And then we're gonna look at a bunch of case studies at the level of passage. Then we're gonna look at the coherence of Surahs. entire Surahs, how they are organized because a Surah is not organized like a chapter, which is why I don't like to call them chapters of the Koran. They're not like chapters, you know. Some of them are just one sentence, some some Surahs and sometimes multiple Ayats are just one sentence. So the organization of Koran, in a literary sense, is very different from any other book. So first was change of subject between Ayat. The second was passages. The third is gonna be Surahs, the fourth is going to be a number of case studies of relationships between Surahs. How Surahs are tying to each other. And that's a long discussion, because, uh, and within these four there are subheadings, which I'm not boring you with right now. Subcategories, because there's lots of things to talk about. And when we discussed the relationships between Surahs. there's lots of things to talk about when we talk about the architecture of a single Surah, there's lots of things to talk about when we're talking about the organization of a passage, or even when Ayat are jumping from one subject to another subject spontaneously or apparently spontaneously. Right. So this is the kind of discussion we're going to have. My recommendation for those of you that are committing for the rest of this study is that you have a translation of Koran with you, uh, an easy to follow transition. I personally recommend the Abdel Halim because easy to follow along with. But whatever transition you have, if you have an app or something you want to follow along with, that would be okay, too, because we're gonna I'm gonna refer to the Arabic, but you're going to have to rely a lot on the English to understand the subject matter. Inshallah ta'ala, to be able to get through this stuff. So I hope that this series is beneficial for you and we come away appreciating the Koran in a new way by the end of this effort. بارَكَ الله لِيْ وَلَكُمْ وَ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم وَرَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَلَى وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ
