اَلْحَمْدُ لِلَّٰهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينِ وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى سَيِّدِ الْأَنْبِيَاءِ وَالْمُرْسَلِينِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ اَجْمَعِينَ  ثُمَّ اَمَّا بَعْدُ
اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم وَرَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَلَى وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ أَعُوذُ بِاللَّهِ مِنَ الشَّيطَانِ الرَّجِيمِ بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم
يس
وَالْقُرْآنِ الْحَكِيمِ إِنَّكَ لَمِنَ الْمُرْسَلِينَ عَلَى صِرَاطٍ مُّسْتَقِيمٍ
تَنزِيلَ الْعَزِيزِ الرَّحِيمِ رَبِّ اشْرَحْ لِي صَدْرِي* وَيَسِّرْ لِي أَمْرِي* وَاحْلُلْ عُقْدَةً مِّن لِّسَانِي * يَفْقَهُوا قَوْلِي Surat Ya-Sin the opening of it, I'll read through it and give you the translation of it. These are the first 12 Ayat of Surat Ya-Sin: يس وَالْقُرْآنِ الْحَكِيمِ I swear by the Qur'an full of wisdom and the one that is woven. Weaved together. That's the meaning of the word Hakim (حكيم). إِنَّكَ لَمِنَ الْمُرْسَلِينَ Certainly you are truly from those that have been sent. عَلَى صِرَاطٍ مُّسْتَقِيمٍ
on a straight path. تَنزِيلَ الْعَزِيزِ الرَّحِيمِ A mighty revelation of the ultimate authority. The always Loving, Caring and Merciful. This is referring. This is describing the Qur'an that He's opened the swear-- the oath with. لِتُنذِرَ قَوْمًا مَّا أُنذِرَ آبَاؤُهُمْ
فَهُمْ غَافِلُونَ The idea, in parenthesis, is this revelation has been sent for what purpose? And why are you--why have you been sent? So that you may warn a nation that was-- whose ancestors were not warned. And thus they are clueless. They're heedless. لَقَدْ حَقَّ الْقَوْلُ عَلَى
أَكْثَرِهِمْ فَهُمْ لا يُؤْمِنُونَ And certainly the truth
has manifested itself. The word has become abundantly clear to all of them. Yet most of them are not going to believe. فَهُمْ لا يُؤْمِنُونَ إِنَّا جَعَلْنَا فِي أَعْنَاقِهِمْ أَغْلالاً فَهِيَ إِلَى الأَذْقَانِ فَهُم مُّقْمَحُونَ No doubt it is We that have placed, uh, collars in their necks-- around their necks, all the way up to their chins. So they're strung up like this like there's a metal collar in their neck and they can only look up. وَجَعَلْنَا مِن بَيْنِ أَيْدِيهِمْ سَدًّا
And We've placed a wall in front of them. وَمِنْ خَلْفِهِمْ سَدًّا
And a wall behind them. فَأَغْشَيْنَاهُمْ
And We've covered them from above. فَهُمْ لاَ يُبْصِرُونَ So they can only- their chained so they can only look up. But they can't see anything because it's covered. They can't see anything in front of them. They can't see anything behind them, so they're covered from all sides. وَسَوَاء عَلَيْهِمْ أَأَنذَرْتَهُمْ أَمْ لَمْ تُنذِرْهُمْ لاَ يُؤْمِنُونَ And it's the same for them whether you warn
them or not, they're not going to believe. إِنَّمَا تُنذِرُ مَنِ اتَّبَعَ الذِّكْرَ
You are only truly able to warn whoever would follow the reminder. وَخَشِيَ الرَّحْمَن بِالْغَيْبِ
And would be fearful of the Incredibly Lovingly Merciful in the unseen. Meaning when they are not seen by others that's when they're fearful. Those are the only people
that will take heed of the warning. فَبَشِّرْهُ بِمَغْفِرَةٍ وَأَجْرٍ كَرِيمٍ
Then congratulate him, such a person, of forgiveness and noble compensation. إِنَّا نَحْنُ نُحْيِي الْمَوْتَى
It is We, in fact, that gives life to the dead. وَنَكْتُبُ مَا قَدَّمُوا وَآثَارَهُمْ And We document whatever they sent ahead. Whatever investments
they've made for their future. وَآثَارَهُمْ and We also document whatever traces or consequences they've left behind. The ruins in their wake. We document those as well. كُلَّ شَيْءٍ أَحْصَيْنَاهُ فِي إِمَامٍ مُبِينٍ
And all things in fact, We have recorded thoroughly in an open, clear record. [إِمَامٍ مُبِينٍ] There's a record with the possession of Allah in which all things are recorded. So this is briefly the passage. Now I've given some footnotes or some side notes here to each group of Ayat or just single Ayat. وَالْقُرْآنِ الْحَكِيمِ
إِنَّكَ لَمِنَ الْمُرْسَلِينَ عَلَى صِرَاطٍ مُّسْتَقِيمٍ
تَنزِيلَ الْعَزِيزِ الرَّحِيمِ All of it dealing with revelation.
That clear everybody? Then I've said لِتُنذِرَ قَوْمًا So that you may warn a nation whose ancestors were not warned. I said "so that you warn". لَقَدْ حَقَّ الْقَوْلُ عَلَى أَكْثَرِهِمْ Most of them won't believe, even though the truth has become clear to them. there there's the collar on their neck, the wall in front, the wall behind, covered from all sides, blinded from all sides. That's what I've said here. Whether you
warn them or not, they won't believe. They won't believe. Then you can only warn those who are truly are fearful. Only warn the fearful. You can only warn the fearful. And finally, Allah has recorded everything in [ إِمَامٍ مُبِينٍ]. Now I'm going to color code this to illustrate some things to you. The opening section deals with revelation. The document that is in the possession of Allah: Allah's Word. And at the end, Allah Himself documents everything in the Book of Records. So there's two kinds of documents. That of revelation and that that records all of our deeds. And there's an interesting contrast between the two. One comes from the skies down to the earth. And the other is the document that's being produced here as we do our deeds and then taken up for processing. The Book of Revelation that comes from the sky to the earth is the one we're supposed to be judged on the merits of and then Allah sees what changed in your behavior and that's recorded in this record. one of revelation and one of our deeds. And both of them are contrasted against each other in the opening and closing of this passage. You'll notice Allah secondly, talks about Inzar (انذار). Which means to warn. لِتُنذِرَ قَوْمًا مَّا أُنذِرَ آبَاؤُهُمْ فَهُمْ غَافِلُونَ That's the second passage-- second Ayah. And notice warning comes up again as the second last item. You can only warn those who are fearful. Your job is to warn people that have been unaware, and of these unaware there very few that in their private moments are fearful of Allah. Actually, you're only working on those. This is an important teaching for the Prophet ﷺ. On the one hand Allah has told him that most of them have no clue. Then He's told him: And even the ones that do have a clue are going to be fearful of Allah, not publicly, where they're going to be fearful of Allah? [بِالْغَيْبِ] Privately. Which means even as you're reminding them and you see no reaction from them, you keep teaching because you don't know what's going to happen in their private moments. Don't let the visible lack of effect impact you and take-- demoralize you that it's not having any impact. Okay? You find the third item Allah says is: لَقَدْ حَقَّ الْقَوْلُ عَلَى أَكْثَرِهِمْ فَهُمْ لا يُؤْمِنُونَ
The truth has manifested itself, and yet they won't believe. This is the idea that most of them, even though they know the truth, it won't matter. They're too stubborn. And how stubborn are they that even if you were to warn them or not warn them, they won't believe. Isn't that perfectly situated? Right across. Third last item? I don't know why I didn't cover the whole line. It looks so nice anyway. And then right in the middle is the degree of their stubbornness. How many ways are they covered in? Three ways. They're looking up, but the top is covered. They can't move forward. What's there? There's a wall in front. They can't see anything in front of them. And there's a wall behind them. Even though I'll be teaching you things about Surat Ya-Sin in the structure of Surahs section, I will tell you one thing about the centrality of this Ayah. This--these set of Ayat. This image that's been painted of people that are blinded from above, in front and behind. That's actually Allah's way of saying there are three ways of guidance. Guidance from above, guidance from the front and guidance from behind. What does that mean? Guidance from above means revelation. Guidance from in front means look at the world in front of you. Look at the Ayat of Allah, ponder on them and you will find Allah. You'll find guidance. What do you think behind refers to? History. Very good. Look at history and you should learn learn something. You'll find as the Surah progresses Allah will describe people who deny revelation. Allah will describe people who deny history. Allah will describe people who denied things that you can only learn from above. And then he denies--they denied the signs around them. The three kinds of blindness that are opening at the center of the passage are going to be the primary subject matter of this Surah. That's how the Surah is actually structured. It's giving you a clue as to what's coming into the Surah. Does everybody see the symmetrical structure in the opening passage? Now this is beyond the (لطائف) and the (استنبات) you know (نكات بلاغية). This is beyond just going to discover cool beans in the Qur'an. What's the purpose of this? A very important purpose of this is that you appreciate which Ayat should be understood in light of which other Ayat. There's a progressive argument. We've studied that. But then there's another level of contemplation. Once you understand this structure, I should really compare and contrast this Ayah against this Ayah because they're complimenting each other and they must go together to complete a lesson. They must have a purpose by which they are now so directly related to each other literally. فَهُمْ لا يُؤْمِنُونَ
لا يُؤْمِنُونَ إِنَّمَا تُنذِرُ
لِتُنذِرَ You know? Then here you have نَكْتُبُ
إِمَامٍ مُبِينٍ And here you have
تَنزِيلَ الْعَزِيزِ الرَّحِيمِ I mean, it's like very explicit correlations that are made. And remarkably whatever Surahs I've studied so far in depth, I've found structures. That are just, they're all too obvious. They're very, very explicit. But right now, we're still within the study of the structure of passages. Um, let me give you the next item, Inshallah. This one's clear? Everybody, this case study is okay? Okay. That would be the opening of Surat Ya-Sin. بِسْمِ اللَّهِ وَالصَّلاةُ وَالسَّلامُ عَلَى
رَسُولِ اللهِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَصَحْبِهِ اَجْمَعِينَ اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم وَرَحْمَةُ اللهِ تَعَلَى وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ This is Ayahs number 40 to 122 of Surat al-Baqara. We're not going to translate them. So this is I've grouped them together as a set of Ayat that have one subject matter and these are the titles of those groups. The Ayah numbers are not relevant for this discussion because there's just too many of them. You won't be able to keep up anyway. Okay? So I'm just gonna read through this to show you how there are way too many things going on. Just to give you an appreciation of how much is going on. Israelites be grateful and fearful. Then Allah talks about how they escaped from the Pharaoh. Then He talks about how they worshipped the calf. You remember the calf story? The golden calf. Then he violated the covenants and their hearts turned to stone. And even--then Allah gave the parable. Even when their hearts turned to stone, they-- even stones fall from the fear of Allah. Then they won't believe in this Qur'an because they've even violated their own book. Then Allah mentions the calf again. Then He mentions that they wish to escape death. They don't want to think about the afterlife. They wish they could live 1000 years. Then He describes how they hated the angels. And they learned the wrong thing from the angels,
Harut and Marut. And you know, تَتْلُو الشَّيَاطِينُ عَلَىٰ مُلْكِ سُلَيْمَانَ
They were following the Shayateen during the Kingdom of Solomon. Okay? Then He talks about how they make fun of the Prophet's revelation. And they mock it and Allah actually says they're mocking it because they're jealous. Uh, and and then He asked Are you actually hopeful they'll accept your message? Because they're not. They're not. Because the Muslims were kind of, um naive to think that because they know Taurat, that they're going to be easier to convince about a Qur'an. No, don't be delusional. That's not how they work. And then Allah mentions that He has power over all things. Then He mentions: Don't disrespect the messenger by saying (راعنا) say (راعي)-- (انذرنا) instead. Those Ayat come and to remain humble. Then their claim that only Jews and Christians will go into heaven. No, only the ones who [بَلَىٰ مَنْ أَسْلَمَ وَجْهَهُۥ لِلَّهِ] the one who submits his face before Allah, those are the ones that should be hopeful. Then using Christians not only invalidate the Muslims, they even invalidate each other. قَالَتِ الْيَهُودُ لَيْسَتِ النَّصَارَى عَلَىَ شَيْءٍ وَقَالَتِ النَّصَارَى لَيْسَتِ الْيَهُودُ عَلَى شَيْءٍ وَهُمْ يَتْلُونَ الْكِتَابَ You have no foundation. You have no basis. The worst people-- then Allah just switches the subject immediately and says the worst people are the ones who disrespect the Masjids, corrupting them. وَسَعَى فِي خَرَابِهَا They make efforts to corrupt the Masajid. Then He mentions: Allah has no son. That He is the Initiator. He made all you know-- He has no son. He owns the East and the West. And then they are again skeptical about the revelation. They're not sure if they should follow it, and there is some hope that they might accept. Be grateful. Okay? So there's lots of different subjects in the score of these Surahs Now what I want to show you is this diagram that captures what's going on inside of um, this passage and I want to open up my screenshot of it so I can make annotations on it. If you notice I've broken this up into three parts or two distinct parts with reds at the top, at the bottom, and then in the middle. So I want to talk about that first. Okay? The first section was Israelites: Be grateful. And the last section I'll scroll down Israelites be grateful. يَا بَنِي إِسْرَائِيلَ اذْكُرُواْ نِعْمَتِيَ الَّتِي أَنْعَمْتُ عَلَيكُم

Okay? The middle, interestingly, is they follow devils and they're against the angels. And they learned magic. Okay? Now, why is that important? Who did they escape? Fir'awn. And what was the Fir'awn's biggest tactic to defeat Musa 'alayhissalam? Magic. His tactic was magic. And here they are falling into the worship of or into the following of magic again. The Surah-- This is the second story in this Surah. The first story in this Surah is that of Adam 'alayhissalam. Adam 'alayhissalam is a story of, you know, Iblis going against the way of the angels. And now they're going against the angels following the Shayateen. Their fall-- you could follow the way of Adam 'alayhissalam; make Tawba and come back. Or you could follow the way Iblis. Who's way are they following? The way of Iblis. Okay? But let's take a step further. What this does, this middle if you take this middle aside, the Israelite discourse is two halves. This half and this half. And that's the middle. If you look at this half, the first thing they talked-- Allah talks about is escape from the Pharaoh. When you were almost killed. how you wish to escape death at all costs. Even now. You'd wish to live 1000 years. The second thing He talks about is how you worshipped the calf, and He repeats the subject matter as the second last item. The third thing He talks about is how they have violated the covenant and then the third last Why do you think they'll accept your covenant? They even violated their own. And in the middle is the problem, the root problem of it all: Your hearts are stone.

Or even worse. Do you see the symmetry here? At first glance, did it look like it's structured? No. When you break the subject matter up, a pattern emerges. In the second half they mock the new revelation. In the beginning and they mock it again at the end. They expressed their skepticism. Allah mentions that He has power over all things
أَنَّ اللَّهَ عَلَىَ كُلِّ شَيْءٍ قَدِيرٌ and then Allah mentions that He owns the East and the West and has no son. He has all power by Himself. Don't they-- You know to not disrespect the messenger, which is coupled later on with "Don't disrespect the House of Allah". The matters of respect are coupled with each other. He mentions: They say Jews and Christians were the only-- the only ones who enter heaven, they say. And yet they're the ones who also fight each other. And in the middle of it all submit your face to Allah. بَلَى مَنْ أَسْلَمَ وَجْهَهُ لِلَّهِ وَهُوَ مُحْسِنٌ Submitting your face to Allah and accepting Ihsan is actually a matter of the heart. Sajda is humility of the heart. By the way, the center of the first half was what? Hearts are stone. Submit your face. You follow devils and the devil refused to make Sajda. It's a remarkable structure. And this is one of the most complex passages in the Qur'an on one subject. The Israelite history. It's not chronological. But by subject matter standards, it's way too sophisticated for an oral tradition. Like this is way too intense to be structured in this way, to be coupled in this way, in this organized fashion for an oral tradition. And that, too, I argue Well, how come nobody else saw this? I was like "That makes it more awesome." The fact that we didn't go around claiming this or observing this makes it all the more authentic. That's not so obvious that when it does surface, you're like, "Wow, this there should have been something we kind of flaunted." He says, "Look at this." "Look at this incredible structure." How does this happen for an oral tradition is beyond me. What I was trying to get across to you is when we study the case, when we look at the case studies and it starts dawning on you that this is way too intricate to be the product of human logic. It just seems way too sophisticated for that. And I, for one, am far too impressed with first of all, I'm impressed with the drawing that I made and because it's it's really cool. You know? And to do that in Word. What? Yep. The harmonica thing that was pretty epic. You know? Uh, but second of all, to discover this in a long Surah like Baqara and Baqara, in my view, has nine sections. And in my study of those nine-- this is one of the nine sections of Baqara. This is the longest one but it's one of the nine. But every one of the nine sections is a structure like this one. Every one of them. And all nine sections together when we look at structure of Surahs, all nine sections are actually also a symmetry, with the fifth section in the middle. Four on this side, four on that side. That's also a symmetrical structure. And that's just Baqara. And I'm scared to start Al-'Imran. That's shorter. But you know it's baffling. It's baffling how this works, you know? So is this is this one clear to everybody? Okay. Inshallah you-- It changes your reading. And again, these are interesting insights. But what's the seed benefit of this? What's the wisdom, what's the Tadabbur benefit of this? Now you see that these Ayat I will study in reflection with these Ayat. This is what I'm going to correspond “القرآن يفسر بعضُه بعضاً” أُحْكِمَتْ ءَايَٰتُهُۥ ثُمَّ فُصِّلَتْ First, the Ayat are kept tight together. Then they're separated. You see the separation of Ayat here? مِن لَّدُنْ حَكِيمٍ خَبِيرٍ and all of that happens from Someone Who has wisdom, Who has all knowledge. So the Ayat that are close to each other have a purpose. And that purpose is development of an argument. The Ayat that have been separated from each other, have another purpose. So you can correspond. So you can review. So you can it can trigger what came before and you connect the dots together. Okay? Alright, so that's that. That's the way we did the Ya-Sin thing. We did the Baqara the thing. And ooh, we can do. Now we're gonna move on to coherence of Surahs. So just to give you an outline of what we've done thus far Alhamdulillah, (ثم) Alhamdulillah. We have thus far covered how Ayat are apparently unrelated but they end up being very profoundly related. That's the first discussion we had when we moved on to the study of passages. We did it in two parts. The first part was how passages have a progressive development of an argument, and we looked at a number of cases where Ayat go together to reach a conclusion. And we looked at those case studies. Then we've done-- I've given you a few case studies of how passages themselves are symmetrical and structured in nature, and there's tons of examples of them. But I want to give you a touch of each of these sections. Because there are lots of sections to go through. Okay? Now what we're gonna do is we're gonna look at the entire Surah. We're gonna look at an entire Surah and the when you look at the entire Surah, that study is divided into three parts. I'll put that for you for your benefit. So the coherence of Surahs is studied in three ways. Anchors. Linear. And structural. And that's what I call it. Okay? Anchors, linear and structural. Or rather, for our purposes, I'll put linear first.

I haven't yet decided if I want to do more than one example of anchors. I really just wanted to do one example. Maybe by tonight I'll-- something that'll occurr to me, and I'll do two or three more. But for the others, I have multiple examples that I want to cover with you guys. Okay? The other reason I didn't want to do anchors as much as because I want you to discover them. I actually want you to become curious. That's the easiest one. As when I explain it to you, you'll see that's the easiest one. So I want to start off today with a couple of examples of linear coherence. I'm going to do Fatiha. I'm also going to do Baqara. A brief review of Baqara and its linear form and I'll try to do something with Kahf. And if we can get those three done, then we've done a pretty decent job. If if time permits, we might do Nazi'at that also. But if I don't get to do Nazi'at, you can listen to my in depth does on Nazi'at. It covers this linear coherence as well; how things are tied together. Now what do I mean by linear? Let me explain. Linear means instead of looking at symmetry and how beginnings and endings are tied to each other and all of that; linear means how is A leading in to B and B leading into C and C leading into D. Just like you know how we looked at the progression of an argument inside of a passage? Now we're looking at the progression of an argument as an entire Surah. Okay? So I'm gonna leave the discussion on Surah, what the definition of Surah is and the discourse about Surah for the next day. But for now, what I'm going to share with you is the coherence-- examples of some Surahs. And we'll start with our favorite Surah the Fatiha. And highlight some things about the Fatiha. Now I want to look at the first 3 Ayat of the Fatiha first. الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيمِ مَالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّينِ I'm going to- for the purposes of discussing its linear coherence- take Fatiha 1 to 3.

1 to 3. And I'm going to call them "knowledge".

What do you learn in Fatiha 1 to 3. You learned that praise and gratitude belong to Allah. You learn some things about Allah. What knowledge do you acquire about Allah? That He is [رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ], [الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيمِ] and, [مَالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّينِ]. You learn these things about Allah. When you get to [إِيَّاكَ نَعْبُدُ] [وَإِيَّاكَ نَسْتَعِينُ] That's Ayah number four. You are now in the realm of "action". What action are you ready to take now? Engage in His worship.
[إِيَّاكَ نَعْبُدُ] And you're ready to seek His help [وَإِيَّاكَ نَسْتَعِينُ]. Now you're ready to take an action. So what the-- so far the linear progression is doing is: This knowledge of Allah should lead you to the following action. The knowledge of Allah, that is in [الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ] [الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيمِ] [مَالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّينِ] leads to the act of [إِيَّاكَ نَعْبُدُ وَإِيَّاكَ نَسْتَعِينُ] You with me so far? Okay? Now, of course, part of that action you can also say five we asked for what? We ask for guidance. Instead of spelling it out. Let me talk it out with you first. We asked for guidance along the straight path, which has been described as the path of those Allah favored. Going on a path. Is that an action? And the people who went on that path did they go on that path with knowledge? That is the path of knowledge and action.

People who knew
الْحَمْدُ لِلَّهِ رَبِّ الْعَالَمِينَ. الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيمِ. مَالِكِ يَوْمِ الدِّينِ And as a result of that, they engaged in
إِيَّاكَ نَعْبُدُ وَإِيَّاكَ نَسْتَعِينُ
ended up on the straight path. We want to go on the path of those who learned that knowledge and applied that action and that's the summary of their life. Does that make sense to you? Okay? So that's what we're doing in Ayah number five and actually even six.
الصِّرَاطَ الْمُسْتَقِيمَ
صِرَاطَ الَّذِينَ أَنْعَمْتَ عَلَيْهِمْ Now, part of that is- what's coming next? غَيْرِ الْمَغْضُوبِ عَلَيْهِمْ Who are these people? You know how the Prophet described them? The people who earned anger? Who are they? Yeah. The Prophet would describe them as the Jews. But not all Jews. It's the Jews that are going to be talked about in Surat al-Baqara. It's going ahead. He's telling you this behavior. What-- Did the Jews know? That the Qur'an keeps saying they have knowledge? يَتْلُونَ الْكِتَابَ
وَهُمْ يَعْلَمُونَ
مِن بَعْدِ مَا عَقَلُوهُ After they understood it. They know the book. They recognize him like they recognize their own kids. Do they have knowledge? But did that knowledge translate into action? Not the path of knowledge without action. That's [الْمَغْضُوبِ عَلَيْهِمْ] Yes? And then what's the last wording?
الْمَغْضُوبِ عَلَيْهِمْ وَلاَ الضَّالِّينَ [الضَّالِّينَ] are people that are lost.
When does somebody become lost? Lost means they're going on a road and that's the wrong road. Are they taking an act? They're engaged in an act of traveling. But they're going in the wrong direction because they have no what? Nor the path of action without knowledge. That's the linear progression of the Fatiha. It starts with knowledge. It progresses into action. Then you ask Allah, "Ya Allah, give me a life that is the balance between correct knowledge and correct action and save me from people that know but don't act. Or people that act and they unfortunately don't know." You see it? So that's not so hard to remember. Okay? Now my favorite,
Baqara. I can't help it. What course would be complete without linear coherence of Baqara? I'm going to give you the nine headings of Baqara.

Faith disbelief and hypocrisy. That's a really big font. That's the first discussion in Baqara. Faith, disbelief and hypocrisy. هُدًى لِّلْمُتَّقِينَ
الَّذِينَ يُؤْمِنُونَ بِالْغَيْبِ إِنَّ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُواْ فِي قُلُوبِهِم مَّرَضٌ Three groups. That transitions into the story of Adam 'alaihissalam. The story of Adam 'alaihissalam has faith. It has disbelief and it has hypocrisy. His disbelief came out and until then, until until the time that it had come out, what had it been all along? It had been hypocrisy. Okay? And I'm going to add something to it. You see how it progresses from the first discourse? This struggle between faith, disbelief and hypocrisy started with Adam 'alaihissalam. It's been going on since. And the story of Adam 'alaihissalam is the story of our father. Isn't it? So I'm just putting that as a side note. Okay? As soon as the story of Adam 'alaihissalam is done, you get Israelites. Actually, no. The Children of Israel. Uh, and they are children. Father followed by what? Children. Bani Israel. There's something else. Adam 'alaihissalam was tested. Was he? Were the Israelites tested? Yeah. Faith, belief and hypocrisy will only come out by way of what? Tests. And that started since Adam 'alaihissalam. Adam 'alaihissalam was tested. The Israelites are tested. Okay. As soon as the discussion of the Israelites is done, Allah talks about Ibrahim 'alaihissalam and he was also tested. Was he not? وَإِذِ ابْتَلَى إِبْرَاهِيمَ رَبُّهُ بِكَلِمَاتٍ So we've got-- And by the way, Ibrahim 'alaihissalam happens to be a father.

Then we learn about the change of Qibla.

From where to where?

Interestingly, it's a it's a major test.

That's where the testing comes to, uh, well, it gets more odd. Then we are made. We are new Ummah. وَكَذَلِكَ جَعَلْنَاكُمْ أُمَّةً وَسَطًا And our father is who? So we're Children of Ibrahim. And Allah says, وَلَنَبْلُوَنَّكُمْ بِشَيْءٍ مِّنَ الْخَوْفْ وَالْجُوعِ
We are going to be tested. Ya Allah. By the way, as far as children are-- Father, children, father, children. Which is--Qibla in the middle. Okay? Then there is a passage on the laws of Islam. These include laws of divorce, inheritance, diet, Hajj, fighting, fasting. You know? Multiple kinds of laws bunched together. Fifteen of them. Okay? Which are also a symmetrical like structure. They're completely symmetrical. You know what's in the middle? ادْخُلُواْ فِي السِّلْمِ كَافَّةً Come into Islam completely. It's amazing. Number eight. How many sections did I say they're going to be? Nine. Number eight is Islam's guidance on greed.

Which is first spending then Riba then business.

And finally, it's a prayer for help against tests.

Okay. Now let me show you some progression. Adam 'alaihissalam was tested. With what? But what? With the tree. Was he able to succeed in that test? No. But what--After the after not succeeding didn't succeed but repented. Yes? The Children of Israelites were tested. Yes or no? Did they succeed? Didn't succeed. Didn't repent. Ibrahim 'alaihissalam was tested. Yes or no? Succeeded or no? [فَأَتَمَّهُنَّ] succeeded. And still repented.

So he says,
وَتُبْ عَلَيْنَا إِنَّكَ أَنتَ التَّوَّابُ الرَّحِيمُ So do you only repent when you fail? You're supposed to repent anyway. Part of your success is repenting. Okay? Change of Qibla happens. We'll skip that. The new Ummah is tested. And there is a: will you succeed? Will you fail? And will you repent? There are three case studies before you. What are the three case studies? The way of Adam. You might fail at some point. You might not succeed. But when you don't succeed, what should you do? Repent. You can also very well go down the road of the Israelites. And what's going to happen? You're going to become the cursed nation. Because they didn't succeed and they didn't repent. But you are the children of your father so I have full expectation that you will do what things? Succeed and also repent. You will succeed and you wil repent. Do you see a progression? But before we get to us, what was placed deliberately in between us and Ibrahim? Because you need to remember that you are the legacy of your father, Ibrahim. And nothing will remind you better that you are associated with Ibrahim than what? The Qibla. So before you're inaugurated as the as the children of your father, Ibrahim, you must first commemorate the House that was built by him. Okay? You're going to be tested with what? Exactly. Well, the nation before you was tested with laws. Your test is coming, and it's going to be with what? So there's a bunch of laws of Islam. Which will put you to the test. You're being tested, whether or not you uphold the Law. Like which nation before you? The Israelites. Okay. Of all of the laws, there seems to be one matter that will be the hardest test for you more than anything else. What is that? Greed. Green is gonna get you. So though all the laws were described in brief, which law is exhaustive? Greed. By the way that takes us back to Adam 'alaihissalam. Adam 'alaihissalam's test was actually one of greed. You have all the trees in Jannah, just stay away from this one. Right? It's no accident that when Allah gives us the guidance on greed, He says: الشَّيْطَانُ يَعِدُكُمُ الْفَقْرَ Shaytan is gonna promise bankruptcy to you. In between the lines Shaytan will promise you bankruptcy just like he promised who? Adam 'alaihissalam. Do you see a progression? When you get to the guidance on greed Here is the best thing you can do to fight greed. Here is the best thing you can do with your money, which is what? Spend in the path of Allah. Spend in the path of Allah. And what's the worst thing you can do with your money? Riba. And what's the acceptable thing you can do with your money? Business. One extreme, then the other extreme, then the middle. And now that you've been given all that you need to be given, here's what you're going to be tested with. This is your trial as an Ummah. Now you turn back to Allah and you say اَ تَحْمِلْ عَلَيْنَا إِصْرًا كَمَا حَمَلْتَهُ عَلَى الَّذِينَ مِن قَبْلِنَا Master, don't put a burden on us like You put on those who came before us, that we don't have the power to bear. وَانصُرْنَا عَلَى الْقَوْمِ الْكَافِرِينَ
وَاعْفُ عَنَّا وَاغْفِرْ لَنَا وَارْحَمْنَا أَنتَ مَوْلانَا فَانصُرْنَا عَلَى الْقَوْمِ الْكَافِرِينَ Pardon us, cover for us You are our guardian. You are our protector. Aid us against disbelieving people. This is the progressive, discourse of Baqara. And since we're on it and I kind of shared it with you anyway, look at the symmetry. Faith, belief and hypocrisy. And the last Du'a is actually about faith, belief and hypocrisy--Faith, disbelief and hypocrisy. It's about faith
آمَنَ الرَّسُولُ بِمَا أُنزِلَ إِلَيْهِ مِن رَّبِّهِ وَالْمُؤْمِنُونَ Don't make us not carry the burden like the the Israelites were not able to carry their burden and became hypocrites. And keep us from the disbelievers
فَانصُرْنَا عَلَى الْقَوْمِ الْكَافِرِينَ The story Adam 'alaihissalam is actually a story of greed. The Children of Israel messed up their laws. You better not mess up your laws. Ibrahim 'alaihissalam was tested and succeeded. Now you're going to be tested. And in the middle of it is the middle of this Ummah, the Qibla. Where everything switches and the Qibla also is a switch from the Israelites to the Muslims. Just like the first half is working up towards the end of the Israelites. And the second half is turning towards the Ummah. The Qibla itself is the point at which everything turns. So the whole thing converges at the change of the Qibla. Okay? That's a little bit about Baqara, and it's linear coherence. Um, I'm gonna try to knock out the- a brief overview of the coherence of Surat al-Kahf before I let you guys go today. That okay with you? Okay. Even if it's not, it's your problem. Okay. Surat al-Kahf. Ayahs number 1 to 8.

The book stands firm to warn against great trials. That's the theme of one to eight.
قَيِّمًا لِّيُنذِرَ بَأْسًا شَدِيدًا مِن لَّدُنْهُ Ayahs number 9 to 26 are the youth of the cave. Is there a correlation between great trials and the youth of the cave? The youth of the cave are barely able to hold onto their faith. First of all, from external pressures, they might be executed. They will be killed. They're running into a cave. Second of all they're young people; young people want to live their life. They want to enjoy themselves. And they're fighting against their inner Nafs and the outer forces and holding onto the Iman. What bigger trial than that? And Allah 'azzawajal aided them and He's aiding you with something much more powerful; the Qur'an itself. Then 27 to 31 the Prophet is told: Stand by the weak companions

as they are with Allah. Don't be impressed with the leaders. Don't be impressed with the elite. They're not your support, the weak companions are your support. Is there a correlation between the youth of the cave and standing by the weak? Do you see it, or do I have to spell it out? It's obvious, yes? They were powerless young people and the Sahaba around you are powerless and yet they are powerful to Allah because they're connected with Allah 'azzawajal. Okay? And by the way, in that passage, 27 to 31 always has things like وَقُلِ الْحَقُّ مِن رَّبِّكُمْ
Say, the truth comes from your Master. What does that echo? It echoes how the youth of the cave stood up and said:
رَبُّنَا رَبُّ السَّمَاوَاتِ وَالأَرْضِ Didn't they come up and get up and say that? Similarly, these Ayat say, you know those who do good deeds they believe and do good deeds
إِنَّ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ About these people
إِنَّا لا نُضِيعُ أَجْرَ مَنْ أَحْسَنَ عَمَلا We're not gonna waste their deeds. What-- What is Allah saying? People of wealth and power everything they have is going to go to waste. The only thing that won't go to waste, the most valuable treasure is people that are committed to faith and doing right. Those are the most valuable assets. Okay? And they may not have worldly treasure, but أُوْلَئِكَ لَهُمْ جَنَّاتُ They're going to have gardens. Okay? Now speaking of gardens. Ayah 32 to 44 is this story of the gardener. Gardener. And his neighbor. You know this story? Vie for the right kind of garden and don't get lost in the wrong kind of garden. And so thus comes the story of the gardener's trial. Then 45 to 59. Nothing in life is permanent. وَاضْرِبْ لَهُم مَّثَلَ الْحَيَاةِ الدُّنْيَا كَمَاء أَنزَلْنَاهُ مِنَ السَّمَاء فَاخْتَلَطَ بِهِ نَبَاتُ الأَرْضِ فَأَصْبَحَ هَشِيمًا تَذْرُوهُ الرِّيَاحُ وَكَانَ اللَّهُ عَلَى كُلِّ شَيْءٍ مُّقْتَدِرًا الْمَالُ وَالْبَنُونَ زِينَةُ الْحَيَاةِ الدُّنْيَا Worldly life is like a plant that grew then dried up and its leaves are crushed away. Nothing is permanent. Is that connected to the gardener story? He had so much and it wasn't permanent. Then, He says the only thing that will matter is you're going to come in front of Us alone. كَمَا خَلَقْنَاكُمْ أَوَّلَ مَرَّةٍ لَّقَدْ جِئْتُمُونَا كَمَا خَلَقْنَاكُمْ أَوَّلَ مَرَّةٍ Nothing in life is permanent except your deeds and the afterlife. Okay? That's the theme here. Everything else will disappear. Then 62 82. Musa 'alaihissalam's three-part journey.

What could be the connection? Nothing in life is permanent. What is life all together? Where did this Surah begin? It began within
إِنَّا جَعَلْنَا مَا عَلَى الأَرْضِ زِينَةً لَّهَا لِنَبْلُوَهُمْ Sometimes the tests of life are really, really hard. We forget why we're really here. This life can become so taxing that we forget there's something- there's a larger plan. Musa 'alaihissalam is going to see things happen in worldly life that he can't tolerate. Even though it's temporary in front of him. And Allah has a plan not only for material reasons like the gardener, even for faith reasons, you can become this-- or you can become concerned about worldly matters. And overindulge in them. Musa 'alaihissalam is going to learn some very difficult lessons. Can you tell me what the three stops were? Good. Ship. The boy. The wall. Okay. You guys are amazing. 83 to 99. Zul Qarnain.

And his three stops. Does he also have three stops? Yep. He does. What are his three stops? Well, we don't really know. Jersey?

Right? So he heads west and he does west to do justice,

right? Then he goes east and leaves alone. He meets people that are under the "no shade". [كذلك تركناهه يعني كذلك تركناهم كذلك]
He left them be. And then he went to Ya'juj and Ma'juj. Right? And he built a wall. I put that there on purpose. What was the third item in the story of Musa? Yep. Wall; wall. Okay, we'll come back to that. Well, no, I'll tell you now. The story of Musa 'alaihissalam begins with an attempt to, uh, no, I can't start. No, no, no. I'll wait. 100 to 110.

The real punishment.

And real reward. Meaning the real punishment for bad people and real reward for good people is in the afterlife. If the Words of Allah

are an endless what? Ocean. Okay? Which, by the way, picks up on the last two stories. He goes to where the sun sets in water. He's heading towards water. Musa 'alaihissalam goes to the place where the oceans meet and Allah is now saying the Words of Allah are an endless ocean. Okay, anyway, now let's understand the the, uh progression at a little bit of a deeper level. Basically, what you find in Surat al-Kahf is what you can call sermon-story, sermon-story. So 1 to 8 is sermon.

Followed by a story. Followed by another sermon; 27 to 31. Followed by a story followed by another sermon where 45 to 59. Followed by a story. And then followed by another story; two stories in a row. Which leaves one more sermon 110, 100 to 110.

The thing to understand is the first sermon leads into the story. That story leads into the next sermon, which leads into the next story. Each one of them are actually pushing you into the next and to the next. For the purposes of brevity I'm only going to highlight matters that pertain to the stories. And I'll teach you something about how the stories are part of a progressive argument. Okay? The four stories of the Surah are connected. Some have made the connection there are four kinds of trials. The trial of youth, the trial of wealth, the trial of knowledge and the trial of power. Right? That's how some have described the four trials are connected. I would take a different approach even though I find some benefit in that; I'm taking a different approach. So let me explain that to you. The Surah is essentially a call for believing in the unseen and letting go of what you see materially. The primary objective of the Surah is to get you to really internalize that there's the reality that you cannot see is more powerful than the reality that you can see. Okay? The unseen is a more powerful reality than the physical laws of nature and the things you have in front of your eyes. Okay? And you have to believe that in that unseen reality- in the seen reality physics is at work, gravity is at work, chemistry is at work, biology is at work. In the unseen reality Allah is at work constantly. Allah is the driver over all things that you see. And more importantly, stuff you don't see Things that are not, you know, visible to your eyes. Now if you then look at it from that point of view. What's the first story? Youth of the Cave. And the youth of the cave, Allah--There's divine intervention.

And there is apparent relief. What's the Divine intervention in this story? They were able to sleep more than scientifically possible. Right? That intervention--Is the intervention of Allah invisible or did it become visible now? It became visible. And so did the relief that came from the intervention of Allah. If you compare this to the story of the gardeners, what happened to his garden? How was it destroyed, did somebody like set it on fire? It was a storm. And a storm can only come from? Divine intervention, clearly.

And apparently was their relief? Apparently, there's a stress. His garden is destroyed, he's distressful, isn't he? But in both of these cases, is the intervention from Allah visible? Yes. I mean, the storm only came from Allah, no human being did it Now come to Musa's story? The ship is cracked by who? Khidr. The boy is killed by who? Khidr. The ship--The wall is built by who?
Khidr and Musa. Looks like it's human intervention, right? And apparently there's distress.

Actually, I won't even
call it human intervention. I'm gonna say "not
visible divine intervention". By the end of the story, what does Khidr say? This was all by the decree of مَا فَعَلْتُهُ عَنْ أَمْرِي
I didn't do this on my own. This was divine intervention. But it wasn't-- It looked like it was Khidr doing it. Every time. Okay. Then you get to Zul Qarnain's story. What's he doing wherever he goes? He's fixing a problem, or he's leaving them alone. Or he's building a massive wall. Looks like who's intervening, Allah or Zul Qarnain? So it's "not visible divine intervention".

And there's apparent, what? Distress or relief? You see the possibilities that have been opened up? Allah's intervention is sometimes visible, and sometimes it's not visible. Whenever you have intervention from Allah, either it looks like relief came or it looks like what? Disaster came. The test of our faith first of all, we keep hoping there will be some kind of miracle like the people of the cave. And when that intervention comes, it will necessarily mean relief will come with it. And for some people Allah will give them that. But that's not the only kind of intervention from Allah. There's other kinds of intervention. Sometimes Allah intervenes and destroy somebody's garden. And was that good for him or bad for him? Even though apparently there was distress, it's actually good for him. And as a matter of fact, even though apparently the People of the Cave received relief, if they after coming back-in the worldly sense-renounce their faith, that's still distress. Which is why Allah is going to say that the only thing good is not them surviving the cave. The thing that's good is them holding onto their faith. The real good isn't worldly relief. The real good is holding on to your faith. The same thing with this guy who lost his garden. The tragedy is not that he lost his garden. Actually, the good news is at the end of it, he says: يَا لَيْتَنِي لَمْ أُشْرِكْ بِرَبِّي أَحَدًا I wish I didn't do that. He repented. There's good news. But then people's faith is tested when the trouble that comes in their life is not at
the hands of Allah visibly. it looks like it's at the hands of people. It's some Khidr who cracked the ship. Or killed a boy. Or had you build a wall without being paid for it. It's some human intervention. Allah is teaching through that lesson that even when you see that it's the act of human beings, don't forget that Allah's Will was at play. Allah would not have let this person do what they did, if it wasn't part of a plan. You may not see the benefit in that plan. How can somebody see the benefit in a child being killed? How can I? I will question it. Musa 'alaihissalam got upset. And he's Musa 'alaihissalam. Go learn from this man. So it's not like he doesn't know that this is from Allah, but he lost it. How could you? And that's after he promised, "I'm going to have Sabr". So the fact that you and I will lose patience when we see things like that happen is understandable. If that can happen, even from Musa 'alaihissalam. وَكَانَ عِندَ اللَّهِ وَجِيهًا He's so noble before Allah and he can have that, then you and I having a reaction is understandable. Allah sympathizes with that sentiment, Okay? But even then he had to be taught even when bad things happen, you will always maintain a good opinion of Allah. And you will say, "Even even though this is bad, it looks bad. Apparently bad. It's apparent distress. There's something Khair in it that is beyond my comprehension." "I'm going to still give my my good good will to Allah." "My benefit of the doubt to Allah." The final case is equally dangerous. What if you have good coming from your hand? What is the tendency? When you accomplish something good, you start thinking maybe this is from my doing. Especially when relief comes to somebody. Which is why Zul Qarnain goes out of his way to say: هَذَا رَحْمَةٌ مِّن رَّبِّ

These are --these last two are the ones where the faith is really, really tested. Where the Divine intervention is invisible. Where it's invisible it becomes extremely difficult. This is the trial of this Surah. Which is why it keeps  analyzing real reward and real punishment is not for this world. Whatever is going on with you in this world is not a punishment. That's in the Akhira. In this world, it's just trial. Apparent or not apparent. Do you understand how all those scenarios are covered in this Surah now? Just a side note about the two stories. Both of them, interestingly, have three stops each, Both of them the first stop--Musa 'alaihissalam is in a position of weakness and a position of the following. By contrast, Zul Qarnain is in a position of leading. So you've got three stops. One is a follower, the other as a leader. Musa 'alaihissalam is constantly in a position of weakness because he doesn't have the power to do stuff and Zul Qarnain is continuously in a position of power to do things. Musa 'alaihissalam sees a crime happened but you find out later on that was to prevent a wrongdoer from seizing a ship. A king from seizing a ship. By contrast, in the first stop of Zul Qarnain he says: If somebody does wrong, I'm going to punish him. And if somebody does good, I'll reward him. If you don't have the power to stop oppression, do whatever you can to at least save the oppressed. If you have the power, then punish the wrongdoer and reward the good doers. Two scenarios. The Musa scenario and the Zul Qarnain scenario. Make the best of the situation if you're in a desperate situation. The second stop, interestingly, he commits murder. He commits murder, which seems absurd. Seems unjust, and actually even what Zul Qarnain does in the second stop seems unjust. Why? He saw people that have no shade and what did he do? He just let them be. He has the power to build massive walls. He could have built something. But there are sometimes there's a situation, there's nothing you can do about it. In the case of Zul Qarnain, there's divine intervention, something terrible has happened. There's nothing you can do about that. And there's sometimes a situation in front of you, even though you might have power in other ways. You don't have the power to change it, and you have to learn to let go. That's part of your trial too. When do you accept that you don't have control? كَذَلِكَ وَقَدْ أَحَطْنَا بِمَا لَدَيْهِ خُبْرًا He left him alone and We know more about them. I'm not gonna tell you why he left them. Just know that he couldn't handle it. He had to go elsewhere. The third stop on both cases in both stories is a wall and a wall. Musa 'alaihissalam helped build a wall. For who? Couple of orphans. Zul Qarnain builds a wall to
help the people because Ya'juj and Ma'juj keep coming and attacking. One wall is designed to fall apart as a mercy from Allah. Because eventually, what will they do? The youth? When they get old enough, they'll open the wall and they'll take the treasure out. The other wall is designed- reinforcement, copper, iron. What's the point? فَمَا اسْطَاعُوا أَن يَظْهَرُوهُ وَمَا اسْتَطَاعُوا لَهُ نَقْبًا It's by design made so that it never, ever, ever falls. And even though it's designed to never, ever, ever, fall Zul Qrnain says: Yeah, this is not forever. فَإِذَا جَاءَ وَعْدُ رَبِّي جَعَلَهُ دَكَّاء وَكَانَ وَعْدُ رَبِّي حَقًّا It's gonna fall. When the first wall falls, it'll be an apparent good. And when then second wall falls, it'll be an apparent what? Bad. Both have built a wall, but opposite things are going to happen. Okay? And yet both of their falling is part of the plan of Allah. وَعْدُ رَبِّي
وَعْدُ رَبِّي When Khidr describes why he built the wall? You know what he said? He said
فَأَرَادَ رَبُّكَ أَنْ يَبْلُغَا أَشُدَّهُمَا Your master intended that they should both reach mature age وَيَسْتَخْرِجَا كَنزَهُمَا
They should take out the treasure that belongs to them. رَحْمَةً مِّن رَّبِّكَ All of that is there for what? As a mercy from your Master. When Zul Qarnain finishes building his wall, what does he say? هَذَا رَحْمَةٌ مِّن رَّبِّ فَإِذَا جَاءَ وَعْدُ
This is a mercy. In one case, the time when the wall will break will be Rahma. And the other case, as long as the wall is standing, is a Rahma. But none of these are permanent because this life isn't permanent
وَإِنَّا لَجَاعِلُونَ مَا عَلَيْهَا صَعِيدًا جُرُزًا Good is not forever, bad is not forever. Both are highlighted. It's a remarkable picture, one item at a time of all the scenarios that you and I will experience in this life. Of Allah's intervention, of good situations and of bad situations. And that's a structural overview of Surat al-Kahf. Okay, so I've fried your brains enough for one day, I think. Inshallahu Ta'ala. Even if I told you more, you wouldn't you wouldn't know what to do with it. Because your minds are somewhere else now. So Inshallah Ta'ala I'll conclude with that, and we will pick up our study tomorrow. Maybe we'll do one more linear study and then go to anchors and then go to the structural study of Surahs. اَلسَّلَامُ عَلَيْكُم وَرَحْمَةُ اللهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ
